e e
well good afternoon
folks if you guys could just give me a
heads up
on X if you follow me there just give me
a five by five you guys can hear
me I'll be singing salain Deon
today that's what's on the
rocket Acappella
all right thank you jonath
Jonathan
Max thank you
all
righty so it's a little bit of
a different schedule for us today I
wanted to take advantage of the
opportunity of showing you what I was
outlining last week that way you can see
that there is an advantage to
knowing
what Market profile you're in now I
don't mean Market profile in the sense
that it's the
volume on top of your chart I'm talking
about the kind of like the
schematic the uh the road map the lay of
the land if you will how how the market
will behave let say like that it's not
enough to have a draw on
liquidity it's also it's important for
you to also have a understanding of how
the market will deliver
price and if we don't have
a acceptance to how the markets are
electon electronically delivered that
that means it's AI that means it's
algorithmic and that means when we do
our buying and selling we're pretty
much subservient to what that price
engine's doing so if the engine on Price
is rallying higher
relentlessly and it matters not how many
people are coming in to short sell it it
doesn't matter if there's a lot of
buyers it's just in a buy program just
keeps going higher we're going to get
filled based on that and
one of the advantages that I had when I
was coming up is to number one lose a
lot of money doing things incorrectly
and then finally learning the lesson to
look behind price and not just simply
say Okay I want to be a buyer because
this or I want to be a short seller
because of that I needed to know a lot
of elements about time and I wanted to
know what these conditions would look
like what characteristics would they
have
that would
repeat when I would go in and expect the
market to perform a certain way and then
it is denying me of that opportunity to
see Precision
timeliness the explosiveness that I
would want to see in my short-term
trades what characteristics
were either noticeable before going into
that condition and then not seeing it
realized in price action and therefore
losing
or finding the opportunities where these
characteristics would not be present
that would hinder my ability for the
trades that I would participate in to
see profit so
differentiating they market conditions
between a low resistance liquidity
condition where it's easy trading very
fast runs easy obvious levels for
targets obvious level where your stop
should be and just a real fast run two
Targets that's a
real it's a real Pleasant environment to
trade
in but that environment as I've
indicated many times it's not an
everyday
instance so low resistance liquidity
runs are not an everyday every session
delivery in price so it
is my goal basically as as the educator
is to kind of counsel you to look for
these types of signatures and price
action that would lend well to you
observing and identifying when it's
problematic or where it's likely to be
problematic so that way at the very
minimum you're going to refrain from
using the highest form of Leverage that
you usually would so with that in mind I
want to kind of take your attention over
to the NASDAQ this is our December
contract on a one minute
basis and I'm going to take the lipstick
off for a moment because I want to see
well nah I going leave it on there
because if I do that the watermark goes
away and then Yahoo's on you Youtube and
whatnot they post it on their Channel
then I got to take it down and read
their cry the emails oh you got a
copyright strike against me
so when we looked at last week's lecture
or lectures I I talked about
how where we can trade the pre-market
session and what type of climate would
indicate when I would trade PR finally
just the pre-market session and not
during the am opening session now the am
opening session is the 9:30 opening bell
all the way to lunch okay so that's like
the am session but it's the am opening
session because it's defined by the 9:30
opening BT anything prior to 9:30
opening bell eastern time is always
going to be referred to as
pre-market so London is
pre-market Asia the night before is
pre-market but very specific elements of
pre-market being 7 o'clock in the
morning Eastern Time to 9:00 or the
opening Bel at 9:30 those are really
good operating hours and a lot of
professionals we we have kept that
little segment of price action in that
time of the day to ourselves we haven't
really drawn too much attention to it
because everybody understands that the
9:30 opening bell is that's the be's
needs that's everybody wants to be there
that's where all the excitement is
that's where all the large odor flows is
piped in the volume is shoved in through
that uh that first 30
minutes and it is important for you to
know that that's not all there is just
like there's an opportunity to be
trading in the lunch hour which is
usually a reversal
mechanism whatever was profitable in the
morning generally we'll either see a
consolidation or a altright reversal on
whatever was profitable in the morning
so if it went up in the morning once
back against that either in entirety of
the move or a large degree of
retracement and then continue after 1:30
in the afternoon Eastern Time resume
whatever the morning session uh trade
Trend or Direction it was moving
in but if you looked at the economic
calendar and hopefully you do this okay
you should be spending time with that on
the weekend and kind of strategizing
what it is you're going to be focusing
on for the week to come and you should
have noticed that there is an absence of
any kind of medium impact high impact
news driver for
Monday because of that we want to look
at the premarket session because many
times that's going to afford you a lower
risk opportunity and it's going to be
more likely to
be low resistance
versus the am opening session being
higher resistance because there's an
absence of any kind of news that means
that the market either do one or two
things it could just
be Consolidated going sideways doing
very much of
nothing or it could become surprisingly
one-sided which doesn't always
indicate in advance what side that's
going to be on it could be met with a
large Judah swing and then it does a
directional move so it's kind of like a
like it's outlier you know a day or a
profile that I wouldn't expect and maybe
you would fall victim to that and miss
that type of day so to avoid all that to
to avoid all the uncertainty around
those types of
days and it's a Monday so that that's
also kind of like what I'm trying to
remind you of because it's
Monday um I I I've had a lot of folks
around the internet kind of like spread
misinformation because they'll say ICT
never trades on Mondays and that's not
true I have a lot of rules around
Mondays because Monday is like Amateur
hour you it's generally where everybody
comes out there out the gate and they
want to do something because they've
been sitting on their hands the entirety
of the of the weekend and they get some
kind of trade idea or they talk to
people online in chat rooms or whatever
medium they're using and they get all
popped up on goofballs thinking that
somebody has better Insight than they do
and what happens if they're right and
you don't trade like they do so you end
up building the center idea so that's
why I'm a little leery on trading right
out the gate on
Mondays because everybody out there that
doesn't know how to trade doesn't know
how the markets work they don't
understand the unwinding
mechanics what makes these price engines
move they're basing their assumptions
and their actions on a hope and a whim
and a prayer and those three things
generally don't vode well for profitable
consistent trading so on Mondays this is
where you write the stuff down
folks every Monday of nonfarm payroll
week that means usually the first week
of every month and yes I'm aware that
we're still in October but I'm reminding
you of these rules okay so on nonfarm
payroll weeks I am absolutely every
Monday of that week I'm trading that
because that's where the cleanest price
action is going to be on Monday and
Tuesday of that week of nonfarm payroll
so whenever there's an economic news
driver that has NFP or non-farm payroll
Friday today I want to be done
trading by Wednesday morning am session
and then unless something
extremely overbearing in terms of
obvious will I trade on Thursday or non
from perel Friday I can I have done it
but I just generally like to do all my
work on the Monday and Tuesday and at
worst case scenario if I'm up and I'm
not you know if I'm not sleeping I'll do
something in the lond session but
predominantly I'm trading on the Monday
session of that week and I'm content
with whatever I earned there I don't do
anything on Tuesday I don't do anything
on Wednesday if I made money on on
Monday of non
payroll every other week every single
week a apart from non-farm
payroll I am testing to see if there's
certain things in the works first and
foremost is what does the economic
calendar say because if the economic
calendar is devoid of any kind of high
impact a medium impact news driver at
8:30 or after the opening bell at 9:30
or
so then I know that I want to be trading
on the pre-market session that means 7
o'clock in the morning Eastern time up
to the 9:30 opening bill but I don't
want to be in at 9:30 or afterwards
because listen to the rule now it's not
9 for payroll
Friday it
is a Monday
there is an absence of medium or high
impact news drivers on the economic
calendar so you have so many things
complicating the the battlefield if you
will at 9:30 for everyone else out there
that's not really equipped to be trading
there's a lot of people out there that
are pantomiming like they have an
understanding of the marketplace but
they're not really aware what it is
they're doing and they're losing money
behind the scenes or they're just
completely lost
for me I want to think about it
professionally and think that I know
that they're going to punish the less
informed individuals at
9:30 they're going to do that that
doesn't mean that you can't determine
where the Market's going to draw to okay
so just make make sure you under that
make sure you are aware that I have made
that very clear here I'm not suggesting
by any means that you can't trade on a
Monday like this I'm not suggesting that
at all but because I'm acting in the
role as a mentor as an educator I'm
being responsible as that educator to
speak to the
newest form of students that's coming to
my my work this is all rehash for people
that's been with me for a long time and
it's unfortunate because they have to
hear that because I have always a
new round of new uh new students coming
in I going said
employees but a new round of uh students
coming in all the time so I I I want to
take advantage of the opportunity
anytime I talk about these types of
things like trading on
Monday there is a lot of misinformation
out there that says that I don't and I
teach not to trade on Mondays I teach
very specific
rules so that way you as a student of
mine would know very clear that this is
a Monday that I would or would not be
trading and if I'm not seeing an
economic news driver that means some
kind of report at 8:30 or during the
9:30 to 8 I'm sorry 9:30 to
10:30 portion of the morning session
then I'm not going to I'm not going to
trade the am opening session I'm going
to trade ahead of the opening BT and
that to me
is one of the best things I ever learned
how to do and condition myself with
discipline say Okay I I have this rule I
have a rule that says if these
conditions are met it's a Monday there's
no economic uh data coming out then I
know that I'm going to get
punished with harder delivery in price
that means it's going to be high
resistance it does not mean that we will
not see our objectives traded to because
if you look on Twitter this morning or X
I showed you a live trade with real
money in a real regulated broker hitting
my target that was my premarket session
short that's all I cared about doing I
didn't care about going long I didn't
care about getting short after 9:30 I
didn't care about silver bullets I
didn't care about optimal trade entries
model 2022 I didn't worry about none of
that stuff I went in got some bread and
I left and I did things on my own
personal schedule that required my
attention elsewhere so you can clearly
see that in that chart and what I
annotated in that post this morning on X
that my interest was in the clustering
of previous week and admittedly at the
time of the recording ing uh I only
toggled over to that chart so that way
you would see some annotations but my
executions are basically based on a
blank chart but I know some of you are
going to look at that and ask what did
you frame that trade on instead of going
into your charts and finding what it is
that's available that I could have used
on that
so I'm not going to hold your hand the
entire process it's important for you to
see there's gaps in my teachings so
there are opportunities for you to go in
and investigate the information yourself
if you're not going into your own charts
seeing whatever I'm executing on and
you're not doing the the the leg work if
you will in your own charts annotating
journaling back testing looking for
other PD arrays because I'm not trying
to force you into the model of just
simply using a fair value G but you need
to understand
that we may have visibility I have
visibility you may have a visibility may
not have visibility because your
experience factor is too low right now
but you will get over time time meaning
that even though that the conditions
were met that it's a Monday no
employment data I'm sorry no economic
data coming out at 8:30 nothing after
9:30 all the way through till 10:30 so
there was nothing to speak of in terms
of uh increasing the volatility by
having these smoke screens that the news
calendar
uses they don't cause the market to go
up and down but
the the interventions that come in
around these times they use them as a
smoke screen so that way you think and
everybody else talks about it online oh
that so and so report or we had real bad
economic news come out today or bad data
came out or positive data com out and
none of that's true none none of that is
absolutely has no bearing on why the
Market's going up and down but there are
perfectly little excuses for when the
market does something that's opposed to
what those reports S Suggest meaning
that if the reports bullish or bearish
and the market does the opposite then
they quickly come out and say well the
market priced in that stuff but you
didn't say that nobody out there is
saying that beforehand so it's quickly
forgotten because the Market's doing
something else so you're never really
paying attention that's it's kind of
much like a magician's slight of hand
you're really never seeing that the
dirty hand doing the work because you're
always being distracted by the red
herring
so I told you we would be focusing on a
draw my interest was the draw on the
clustered previous week
which is here and if you look at the
recording you'll see that it says
current in the recording because I I had
to hurry up and toggle over because I
knew as soon as I started the uh record
the trade going into the target I was
going to be met with a hundred different
comments saying what did you use to get
into that I thought we're supposed to be
trading model 2022 I thought we're
supposed to be trading after 10 o'clock
I'm not limiting myself to that I taught
those models that doesn't mean I have to
stick to those models I'm teaching that
to my students and specifically to my
kids your job is to find find one that
matches your personality just because I
taught one model doesn't mean I'm
locking myself into just only that I'm
not a one trick pony I can do lots of
other things and I I do that to show you
that there is no
limit to formulating and fashioning a
model that is going to be uniquely
equipped to agree not be in contention
or in competition against your
personality and many people they latch
on the people as Educators and teachers
or whatnot and I'm I'm in that same
category too because I may be talking
and promoting a specific model at a time
when you find me and then you discovered
I've taught other models before but
because whatever model I'm teaching at
the time that's the good one that's the
that's the only one that seems to work
because if it if it was good enough for
the Silver Bullet to never need to have
another model mentioned after it then
why talk about another model and that's
my opic it's just focusing on one
characteristic of the marketplace where
you can capitalize on a time-based Model
it's very specific it's rule based that
means it checks a lot of boxes for brand
new students to you know go in and force
some measure of accountability and
responsibility and most models that
people are promoting through mentorships
or whatever they don't have rules that
hold you accountable because you're
always hunting for a new setup and you
don't really know when that setup's
going to form you can't just say oh
here's the ICT Kill Zone and and
somewhere in these hours there's going
to be a setup of course that's going to
be a setup but when we narrow it down to
okay here's a setup that's going to form
between 10 o'clock in the morning and 11
o'clock in the morning and if it doesn't
form that's your model if it didn't form
you didn't get a trade turn the charts
off and then you form in F fashion your
responsibility your accountability goes
through the roof and you build
disciplined by
that so I'm reminding you that we we
talked about this I did in the post this
morning so the draw was here but I said
in that recording you'll see it says Uh
current in the purple one that's this is
last week's new week opening Gap and I
did this to kind of like have a lot less
things on the chart because I'm teaching
Caleb to focus on clusterings of new
week opening gaps or clusterings of new
day opening gaps so if we're opening up
here at 9:30 or so my job as a Trader is
already done like I I don't care at that
time because I'm looking for something
that's going to be useful before the
opening bell because it's a Monday
because it's the last uh I'm sorry not
the last it's the uh Monday without a
impression of Confusion by the economic
calendar having a high impact or medium
impact news driver at 8:30 or after 9:30
opening bell so there's a there's a void
of any kind of
intervention or invitation for
intervention not that it can't be it's
just the the probabilities of that
occurring with the economic counter
being void of anything it's less likely
so they're going to move the market
cleanly before everybody else is part of
it that means everybody sitting around
like kumbo yya waiting for the 9:30
opening bell everybody else is hurting
to that Watering Hole at 9:30 but the
professionals are going in
early we're going in and we we get ours
early because we know that there's going
to be a whole lot more predatory price
action after 9:30 why because it's a
Monday because there's an absence of
medium impact or high impact news
drivers
so trade where the Market's more cleaner
where it's more likely to yield to you
favorable price delivery versus back and
forth price action and I'll show you
exactly what I mean by that in a moment
but notice that we did trade down to the
new week opening Gap high this current
week so that's this one here and we
failed to get down to consequent corion
of the current new week opening Gap so
if we take this one and this one take
that off this is what the new week
opening gut looks like right now for
this current week so it's rather large
okay and we did not trade down the
consequent encroachment of the present
current new week opening Gap and
obviously we haven't traded down to the
low either but inside of that we have
last week's new week opening Gap and
notice that's in the lower half of the
current new week opening Gap when I see
stuff like this okay it it kind of it
promotes the idea that it's not enough
to expect it to trade down to the new
week opening Gap High that's reasonable
that's like a lwh hanging fruit
objective so Caleb is being taught that
what
ever level is first when you're looking
for a short meaning that we have two new
week opening gaps here this could just
as well be a new day opening Gap
clustering so there's very close
overlapping if you will gaps so there's
going to be a lot of return back into
this area of all these levels you know
as a whole but the larger of them
meaning that if we're looking for a
short up here or as he's being trained
to do it
he would not hold for consequent
Coachman of of the current new week
opening Gap it's not in his it's not in
his uh model he wouldn't hold for the
high of last week's new week opening Gap
he wouldn't look for the consequent
coaching of of last week's new week
opening gap which would be between these
two purple lines and he would not look
for the current new week opening Gap
low because he's being trained to take
the first low hanging fruit objective
that means the first profitable exit
using the strategy meaning if you're
short which is the first new week
opening Gap high level you're going to
get
to and as soon as you trade to it plus a
spread of one or two
ticks he gets
out he doesn't hold for the best exit he
doesn't hold for the maxim amount of
money if he's right see he he's removing
the necessity about being perfect with
his
exits when I was struggling in the brand
new stages of my career in
1990s my first problem was entries I was
afraid to enter I was afraid that I'd be
wrong I was afraid I was going to M
trades everything compounded into a
problem so I had to desensitize myself
to never fearing never having a problem
about finding a setup to get me into a
trade so I have lots of ways to get into
a trade and eventually it became a
problem for me to be content with my
profitable exits so you all have seen me
trading you've seen my executions you
see how I do partials when I do them you
see how I Trail my stop loss you see all
these things okay and to the lay person
to someone that is been trading for a
while they can appreciate that that
measure of number one Precision Trad
trade management and it looks really
really good and it is it took lots of
time to get to that but it wasn't easy
getting to that stage and truth be told
and I've said this many times candidly I
am not happy and I'm not satisfied with
my exits that's still my weak point I
believe there's a whole lot more room in
there for me to improve that and I'm
cognizant of the effects of the pursuit
of perfection being an illusion okay
you're never going to reach that but as
long as I'm alive and I have mental
faculties I'm I'm going to try to pursue
it okay it's not going to make it worse
it's just going to make me strive to do
better and the day I stopped striving to
do better is what's the point of being
around here then right you that I want
to I want to be better than I was
yesterday all the time and I have models
that work very very
well but I'm never going to be satisfied
ever until I can't do it anymore
so one of the things that I had to
overcome was this argument I always held
with Within Myself in my
journals and I said to myself that I I
was not satisfied with that trade exit
because it went it went 50 handles more
or well not really so much back then
when I was trade it didn't move that
much but you it went like five handles
Beyond where I was trying to take my
profit I wanted to figure out why I was
not willing or why I didn't see that it
was going to reach that much further
than than where I was and it took a
great deal of time to just go back and
and see that I would beat myself up in
my journal I would punish myself I would
talk down to myself I would be very very
critical of myself and then that
critical evaluation I would give myself
on a day-by-day trade bytrade basis in
my journal it would stick with me in my
workday and I would find myself
literally saying the things I said to my
journal out loud in my own voice saying
yeah you you really messed that up you
were foolish you didn't you didn't do
this correct you didn't do that and I
never ever spoke positively about myself
in the beginning which is why I teach
you not to do those things in your
Journal because that was a hindering
factor for me it held me back a lot and
it caused a whole lot of Quagmire in
this muddy terrain the the kind of like
sludge through and not get any kind of
real traction or gain any new ground in
understanding or prowess it was bogging
me down so one of the things I told
myself was let me go back and see what
am I doing consistently when I have
exits that are profitable and I found
that I was usually exiting admittedly at
the time through fear that it was going
to turn around on me and it has moved
enough so I learned to be content with
enough you remember that slogan be
content with enough I had to force that
perspective on myself by going back and
looking at my journals and saying okay
the trades that I was winning
consistently in predominantly most of
them were me closing before my targets I
would have a Hardline Target it would be
if it goes to this level here it'll
limit me out at that that price level
and because I had Scar Tissue doing all
the things wrong being highly critical
of myself because I was overtrading
because I was using too much leverage I
didn't have the ability to stay with the
trade long because I had all those
things compounding with very little
experience I started in 1992 and I was
trading way too much with too little
money I was under
capitalized I did not have experience I
did not know what I was doing and I was
like a cowboy out there just gunslinging
and when I was right I felt like I owned
the world and any setback was disastrous
it was absolutely disastrous because I
made sure I punished myself Way Beyond
what would be reasonable so one of the
corrections I made in myself was going
back this is why if you don't if you
don't Journal you don't have this
resource to tap into you're not going to
remember every detail about every trade
you did I can't remember every detail
but I can take myself into a journal and
I can show everything that was pertinent
at the time and the Open high low and
close and the highest high in the first
hour the second hour the third hour and
the same thing at the last half of
trading day I have all those details and
if I was watching price at the time what
I was thinking and how I was feeling and
if I engaged at all you don't have that
you don't have that for 30 years but I
do so I know myself better than anybody
ever will no one's going to know me
better than I do I have a clinical
history of documenting how I felt how I
thought how I overreacted how I ignored
foolishly certain things that should
have been brought to my attention and
the Forefront of my mind about what I
should be focusing on predominantly and
less on money because the money aspect
that was what I was pursuing because I
needed that to change my status because
if I could change that status I would
win my ex-wife back because I was a
young brokenhearted man so I was not
trading for the right reasons I was
trading for a Revenge plot okay so I
looked back at my journal and I said
well here's the things that I have
noticed that I'm doing I'm exiting early
all my trades were exiting early and 90%
of them were impulsively exiting meaning
that some kind of mental
threshold was being tapped into where I
could not I could not muster the
strength the Courage the fortitude the
willingness to hold on to the trade any
further but nothing had underlyingly
changed about the trade so what was
manifesting my physical inability to
hold on to the trade because my mental
Capital my mental Capital rather had
been
exhausted I'm in a trade and it's
profitable all I have to do is hold on
to it and the trades many times would
have hit the target but because of
losing trades because of being stopped
out because I've missed trades or
because this is the big one because I
was
overleveraged I had too much on based on
the amount of money I had in the account
so every tiny
fluctuation whether it was moving in my
favor or moving against
me it was enormous
pressure it was enormous pressure any
ticks that moved in my
favor was like a euphoric wave of yes
yes yes relief relief keep going keep
going and if it moved two ticks I would
say okay give me five more ticks and
then if it moved one more tick I say
okay give me give me three more ticks
give me three more ticks and then one
tick would come back which is normal
delivery then another two ticks down and
I'm freaking out I'm like oh it's
reversing it's reversing it's everything
I talk about in The Long parts of the
lecture which by the way this this is
that kind of lecture so you want to
learn how to make money you want how to
hold on to a trade how to work yourself
through these hard things that real
trading takes you through these are the
lessons and lectures you want to listen
to It's not the buy the sell here's the
Candlestick formation here's the order
block none of that stuff is important
compared to this stuff because this is
what fixes you or keeps you on the
straight and narrow and I'm telling you
what changed in my trading was how I
think about money how I think about the
fear of holding on to the
outcome so if you don't over leverage
and if you don't
overtrade and you're being disciplined
about what it is you're executing on
there has to be a rule there has to be a
model and there has to be some measure
of a threshold that you're aiming for
that is a lwh hanging fruit objective
so what I did was I I went back and I I
started seeing things in my exits when I
would impulsively close the trades and
not let them go to
Target 90% of the time they were hitting
one or two PD arrays that were in favor
of me but before my actual Target or
Terminus so I elected to come up with
the idea okay well this is like a this
is like low hanging fruit it's easy I
can do these trades and if I stick to
doing that then that could be my model
until I get better at doing this because
I had a lot of problems I had to fix
within my thinking and a lot of scar
tissue I had lost a lot of money I was
in debt I was trying to figure out how I
was going to clear all that up and still
win the the heart of my exwife back okay
so that never happened by the
way but the idea of looking for low
hanging
fruit this easy objective aim for that
because you're going to have a higher
strike rate if you you can pick the
easiest objective to trade to and it
doesn't matter what ICT shows in his
trading execution it doesn't matter what
any of my other students do it doesn't
matter what your favorite furu you know
live streamer is doing it doesn't matter
how much they got in their payouts it's
not of that has anything to do with you
that's not a Rel a direct relationship
or correlation rather to you being a
good Trader or not being a good Trader
based on what other people
do but in this climate right now because
social media is
so you know what it is it's meant to be
divisive that's why it's been introduced
to us it's not to help one another it's
to be divisive and to communicate that
at NeverEnding
divisiveness and I'm trying to use
social media to remind
you that you don't have to keep up with
everybody else like you don't have to do
those things but social media tends to
make you feel like you you should or
you're not progressing when real
progress is for you to say what's the
easiest thing I can do today and make
money and not really work that hard for
it now think about that sounds real lazy
doesn't it that sounds like wow you're
an
underachiever but you know what that's
exactly what every new student should
think like because you don't have the
skill set to be an overachiever but you
try to be an overachiever what do you do
you trade more and trade with more
leverage than you should and you try to
do more money in profit with an under
capitalized account and you wonder why
you feel like you can't do it and you
wonder why it's stressful because you're
trying to do something that's next to
Impossible with those conditions and
that's why I kept blowing out in the
beginning 1992
1993 it started see some progress 94 I
pushed it too hard thought I figured it
all out hurt hurt there a little bit too
and then in 1995 I was like a it was
like a swing year for me the first half
of the year I was hurt a little bit then
I came back strong wrong and then in the
quarter like the third quarter I was
introduced to a lot of the stuff that uh
I mentioned many times with Larry
Williams his confidential training uh
course VHS stuff that's what I needed I
need someone to tell me what I should be
focusing on and not focus on the money
and that lesson hit hard because that's
what I was focusing on I was focused on
money and I was fearful of the losses
and I was too hopeful and too expectant
of having the big winfall victories I
thought that every trade was going to be
a winfall victory and if it didn't then
I'm I'm I'm a failure and it doesn't
equate to that and you shouldn't frame
your whole basis as a Trader with that
very limiting and
strangling mindset so why does
Caleb want to aim for when he's short
whatever level is highest because that's
the easiest objective to reach reach to
because if there's a cluster of two new
week opening gaps and again this is
applicable to New Day opening gaps too
how do you how do you determine which
one you're going to trade
Michael what what what is he going to
reach for well obviously you're always
going to look for the current New Day
opening Gap see where that falls in in
and where price action is trading and
where it could gravitate to if you're
using the new week opening gaps then
you're going to obviously look for
where's this current new week opening
Gap
and is it in close proximity in the last
five
new day opening gaps or five new week
opening gaps and if there's an overlap
of any any two it's all you need just
two of them and if there's more than
that it just means it's going to be a
larger degree of probability that it's
going to shift and repic to that level
because whether it's been traded and
filled in or not as a gap it matters not
but if the gaps are open and they're
unfilled like we wait we have here these
two are wonderful it's going to create
like this black hole effect you know
it's not uh it's not Event Horizon which
is a pdra but it has the effect of Event
Horizon but on steroids because it's
going to want to go back down into these
areas and revisit them because they're
natural value areas there there's an
absence of buying and selling at all in
these areas hence their Gap
so because we have an absence of that
economic news driver impact no medium or
high impact news drivers at all on
Monday and it is a Monday but it's not a
narm payroll Friday Monday so what do we
do we trade the pre-market session and
we use the draw on liquidity based on
what I'm showing you here
so Caleb would never reach
for an
objective Beyond this one
here okay you understand that hopefully
by now because it's the if you're above
the price action or above the draw in
liquidity in this case this one down
these two new week opening gaps as I
indicated in my tweet this morning my
direction my bias Caleb's bias would be
to expect price to draw down today into
this area here the high the midpoint and
the low of this current new week opening
Gap and the new week opening Gap is
where we settled last Friday and
reopened on Sunday at 6 p.m. that's what
these levels
are they're
here okay and the purple ones just go
back one more week
prior so because these
gaps are very often used to be repriced
to it matters not what school of thought
you have you know if you use all the
other different retail ideas if you
start implementing this as a means of
looking for the as a bias or a session
bias okay you're going to have a a
higher degree of probability stacked in
your favor because this is what the
market does okay I mean it's it's a real
plain simple you generic trait to this
this this is what generally will happen
every single day every single week these
are the things that happen this is why I
know I'm going to find a setup this is
how I know I'm going to be able to find
setups in perpetuity and the same thing
you'll feel that same confidence too
when you understand that these things
tend to repeat a lot and you don't need
to go into half of the Gap the lower
half of the Gap the the upper quadrant
the lower quadrant and you don't have to
go into the other previous week's new
week opening Gap to find profit now
think about the logic with that versus
what you're trying to do probably right
now or what you've been doing probably
for months or failed at keeping a funded
account or never getting a a funded
account in your prop firm trading or
blowing Live accounts or going into
severe draw down because many times
you're probably reaching for things that
are so beyond the scope of your present
skill set and it doesn't matter how many
years you've been trying to trade you
still have a very small capability
because you haven't found consistency
yet the the length of time doing it is
not a direct correlation to how good you
should be because you can waste a lot of
time doing all the wrong things and lie
to yourself saying but I do study but I
do take notes but because I I do back
test what you do with your time how you
condition yourself mentally while doing
those things that's going to have a
direct result or impact on the outcome
of what it is you're forming as a
model and if you don't put the work into
identifying those things and being
critical about the importance of them
you'll try to hold on to a trade and I'm
sure you probably have had this happen
before you're in a trade and you're
looking for an objective that probably
pays out over $1,000 or more and if
you're doing multiple contracts it's
you're doing the math on this is going
to be great I'm going to have a
$20,000 uh winning day or this will put
me to a point where I can ask for a five
figure you know payout or get a
withdrawal from the actual
broker and then you start feeling that
what if it doesn't get there and what
happens if it never really gets to my
Target and now you're worrying about
never getting to your target versus
sticking to the model that says you
should should hold it for your Target
isn't that funny how that works you
start thinking about the very thing that
you don't want to see happen instead of
saying am I seeing everything that still
indicates this is the likelihood that I
started the trade on the premise was it
should trade to my target are you
looking for signatures and validation
behind that technical aspect that you
entered on are those still being seen in
that chart is price still indicating
those things are true as long as that
doesn't happen or long as that
doesn't you know fail or it no longer is
in price action supporting your idea you
shouldn't be thinking about your trade
failing because what you're doing is
you're teaching yourself to have
negative concern while the trade's
underway and you wonder why you're
fearful and you wonder why you're afraid
of losing because you're constantly
reflecting inside and maybe outwardly
that man I know this is going to turn
around how many times have you said that
oh man I better get out but you're not
getting out man I know if I if I get
this trade I know it's going to do this
or do that the fact that you're even
doing those
things you're not in control of
yourself you're not in control you're
not you're not driving anymore your
emotions are driving and the first tree
that you come to that's what you're
going to run into that means you're
going to impulsively do something
you're going to get Reckless and then
what that does it becomes a shift in
your mindset where it becomes gamblers
numbness if you constantly talk to
yourself out loud or internally but
worse outside of you know with your
tongue saying it I know this is going to
turn on me I know this isn't going to
hit my target I know I should just get
out right now but you're saying eff it
I'm just going to hold on to it but
you're really killing yourself like
you're you're beating yourself up
dragging yourself across the coals
telling yourself you're not going to get
out but inside your wrestling just get
out just get out but you think it's
weakness if you get
out and you start this whole wrestling
match with different perspectives and
you're arguing with with multiple
versions of yourself and then when it
gets so bad you'll start saying it out
loud like you're talking to yourself as
a separate
person the entire time you're not
watching price you're just wrestling and
arguing with yourself about staying with
the trade or getting out of it
to avoid that for
Caleb and to avoid the things that were
happening like that for me when I was
younger into my 20 years old uh initial
Suare into trading I had a lot of that
stuff like I had full Lo conversations
with
myself why aren't you taking this trade
exit right here why aren't you doing
that well here's the reasons why what
what are you doing you're you're
literally distracting yourself from the
the task at hand which is stick to the
model is the model still active is it
still valid that's what supposed to be
focusing on and you do positive selft
talk you remind yourself when the
trade's panning out in your favor these
are the things that are going positive
for the trade you're not lying to
yourself if it's not there you're not g
you're not going to say it right but it
is something you constantly have to
refer to and then if it does turn around
stop you out okay that was a cost of
business it's it doesn't mean it's the
end of your career it doesn't mean your
model's broken doesn't mean it doesn't
have the ability to find another winning
trade in the future doesn't mean that
you're bad it just means that that
transaction said this is enough for
right now come back another day or come
back on another opportunity that's all
it means it just means respawn on
another
setup and there it is it doesn't mean
get right back in either it doesn't mean
go back in with more
contracts it just means that it was
enough for right now and you missed a
better opportunity to exit but you'll
get better at doing that over time
that's how you should take a loss that's
how you should tell yourself that's what
I just that's I just experienced and
that's not a toxic thing that's not a
bad
thing but if you start this whole
process with
okay I'm trying to make money but I'm
realist I'm
a practical person I know that my skill
set because I just started studying
these things from I's YouTube
channel I don't have the real skill to
implement the things that I see ding his
other students because I'm just starting
so how can I go about framing a very
easy loow hanging fruit objective so
that way I don't have to work so hard I
don't have to build these unrealistic
expectations about what I should be able
to accomplish in my trades too soon so
that way I'm always on this positive
Continuum of progress and I always feel
like I'm getting better and not
stagnating or going
backwards every day is an opportunity
for you to improve upon yourself from
where you were the day before but you
are making it impossible if you're not
being real if you're if you're out there
thinking you're going to get ,000 per
contract every single time you get into
a trade and you just recently started
your expectations is too high and I mean
that even if I was trading in front of
you and told you my entries were and I
was consistently delivering that you
would still mess it up because of your
inability to trust what it is that
you're doing and you're going to feel
this emotional stimuli rise up in you
and you'll start feeling afraid when
you're making
money and then you'll be distracted and
you'll start going through this Loop of
what should I do should I do this should
I do that and you're not doing what
you're supposed to be doing as a Trader
which is following price action
following the model indicating that is
it valid still or is it not valid that's
trade
management but the reality is
everybody's course everybody's book
everybody's live stream everything that
you get involved with is always about
getting into a
trade that's what it's all about the
action of getting into a
trade nobody has a a a a deficiency in
finding a reason to get into the market
okay everybody has a reason to get into
it you can just stump your toe and said
oh well you know last time I did that I
made money let me just go out here and
just try to buy something today because
I feel like I got got to replace this
bad feeling of pain that's an
instigation for you to go out and do it
so nobody needs any help in that in that
area but what I have noticed and what I
had to fortify in my own trading were
reasons to justify why enough is
enough if you think that your trade
should yield you $1,000 what's wrong
with making
$250 it's $250 you didn't have before
and in your early infancy as a Trader
that's developing as an analyst as a
technician learning how to do these
things and repr price you don't know if
that trade's going to yield to $1,000
for you you don't know that you don't
know the things that
are positive for that outcome to be
expected in the same token you don't
recognize or know what the things are
going to be that say no it's not going
to go there while you're in the trade
so in the beginning it's real important
for Caleb or anyone else that's brand
new to say okay I need to have a very
small low threshold objective okay I
suggest I suggested this many times in
Twitter
spaces other lectures whatnot and I did
a lot of that last year and one of the
YouTubers that has went out there and
very transparently done it um used the
idea of just taking 10 Handles in the
NASDAQ taking 10 handles and making his
entire model that and get out and he
took over $300,000 out of the the prop
firm companies it's Matt Miller or you
may know him as trades by Matt so he did
this like he did it okay it's you can
say whatever you want to say about him
you know I don't I have anything I could
say bad about him I think he's he runs a
good Community I think what he does is
how everybody should act he stays in his
Lane doesn't really bother anybody else
and just does it and doesn't always make
money but he's the only one I saw take
$300,000 of the Prof firm except for my
student that just smashed it with with
almost $2 million he I don't think he'll
call himself my student but that's
another discussion for another day but
the idea is that you have to have some
kind of early exit strategy that you can
live with but you're going to hit 90
plus percent of the time now that
doesn't mean you have a 90% strike rate
and you don't lose but just 10% of time
it just means 90% of the trades that you
enter you're going to execute on this
basis meaning that you can see the trade
going further and you're going to
wrestle with this in the beginning it's
going to feel like why do this I'm going
to tell you why do this you have to have
the comfort of knowing that what you're
doing repeats a
lot $20,000 payouts every single week I
don't care how good you are when you're
when you're first finding your rhythm in
this this you might find your first
$20,000 payout or profit
withdrawal but you're not going to be
able to do that every single week not
right away you won't and then you're
going to be rushing to try to duplicate
that or double it what about do five
times that then I got a six figure
payout or a six figure withdrawal and I
can be part of the $100,000 Club
everybody will find respect in me in
that regard if I do that what are you
doing you're not trading for money
you're not running a business you're
trying to get
clout you can make all the money in the
world all the money in the world that
you'd ever need and want if you take
yourself away from those things
initially it doesn't mean you can't come
back to it later on when you learn how
to do these things
consistently but if everything you're
trying to do is an image-based marketing
thing doesn't it make sense for you to
be consistent doesn't it mean that you
should have some kind of track record
where you can show that what you're
doing that you're going to try to Garner
attention
from be signals or live streaming or
whatever it is you're going to
do the shest fastest way to get there is
to look for lwh hanging fruit objectives
I promise you this okay I promise you
you think that $250 isn't enough right
now it's not it's not enough right now
because you see my results you see my
students results you see other people
out there getting their results and
they're getting paid with real money and
you're trying to measure up to that
stuff and you're thinking wow you know
I'm going to have to do a whole lot more
than that or people won't recognize you
that's
because I have a great deal of
respect for someone that can walk out
there every single day and find the
reoccurring pattern not just throw the
dice and I made 250 bucks you're trying
to do something different every day and
just happen to get 250 bucks chasing
momentum that to me is absolutely
skilless that's no skill that's that's
tant amount to go into the casino or
playing the lottery you have no model if
it's moving let's run after it and Chase
it if you if your trading model is like
a dog chasing cars there's a lot of dogs
that chase cars but a lot of dogs don't
live long doing
that and I think that someone that has a
model that frames out the basis for
finding that
$250 that tends to Repeat based on
reoccurring phenomenon things that have
a reoccurring basis that this is what it
does at this time of day I'm looking for
this where should the market draw to new
week opening gaps or New Day opening
gaps that is not
ambiguous that is not something that's
complex folks that's very very simple
stuff that's the easiest thing in the
world no moving averages
required no vwap nothing none of that
stuff no higher time frame
top down analysis approach none of that
stuff's required none of that is how do
you supercharge it when you have a gap
opening so at 9:30 if we gapped higher
than when we settled the previous day
what's previous day on a Monday
Friday we had that today too so that's
why I was confident told you in that
tweet I'm comfortable and I like the
idea of these new week opening gaps
clustered as a draw on liquidity where
did the market go when your charts did
parabolically higher today no went right
down into these areas here and it still
hasn't touched the consequent
encouragement or
midpoint and that further validates what
I'm teaching you and what I taught my
sons that they can see Dad do really
amazing objectives and and it can go
trade right to the tick high or just a
few ticks away from the high of the day
of the session of the morning price
Swing Swing or the afternoon price swing
and that's a that's a goal for them but
that's not a I got to do it that way or
it fails or if I can't do that I'm a
failure or there's no sense in worrying
about doing it at all if I can't do it
that way versus as their dad as their
Mentor too and as your Mentor I'm
reminding you that if you find a way for
yourself just starting out if you can
find 250 200 bucks a 100 bucks doesn't
have to be these you these specific
spefic numbers but you have to have
something that You' say
okay if I go out every day and I look
for this very easy objective of whatever
it is you're trying to you know take
them I say 250 bucks because you know
that's a really good living in addition
to having whatever your job is I don't
even care if you have a a lowincome
paying job right now most people by
definition in America right now are
working a low pay job because
inflation's you know ravished everything
I I feel the pinch when I go out and
spend groceries I I don't I don't like
that I have to spend that much I think
it's it's a travesty you and I think
about how everyone else is trying to do
it and I don't know how they're doing it
like I don't know how anybody else that
doesn't have some measure of income or
cash flow coming in how can you all be
making it it's got to be hard
so by having some low threshold that
frames your result on this is what I
believe I can find this every single s
Le Day meaning you can get 10 Handles in
the NASDAQ or 15 Handles in the NASDAQ
or 20 Handles in the NASDAQ or five
Handles in the S&P or 10 Handles in the
S&P every single day it might require
you to do two
trades or if you trade with a 15-minute
time frame just one trade and get it
easily using a one minute or 15sec chart
to get yourself into a move that's
already started Rec you know reacting
off a higher time frame meaning that 15
minutes is the high time frame for day
trading you don't need to go up to a
daily chart you don't need to go to an
hourly chart but using these ideas to
frame out a very easy objective and it
frees you up it gives you permission to
not be perfect because I wrestle and Men
I'm telling you right now you can lie
and say that you don't think this but
you're absolutely doing this you want to
be better than the last thing that I
posted or someone else posted that's
exactly what you're doing your next I'm
going to do something more impressive
I'm going to prove myself I'm going to
prove this I'm going to and the only
thing you proving is is you're not
ready why because you're trying to make
the outcome an Olympic feat that no one
else asked you to do that I'm your
teacher I'm your mentor and I'm telling
you start on the lowest
threshold I'm not hindering you but many
people will hear me say this and I'll be
honest with you if I was out there
trying to make uh my grocery money
trying to sell mentorships and
like that right now um if I need the
money I would attack my angle of
approach and say who would you rather
learn from someone's going to go out
there and tell you to to try to make 250
bucks or someone that can take down
$3500 every single day and here's how
I'm going to do it and show you how to
do it too I would Market that way
because I can do $ 3,500 easy every
single day that's an easy thing for me
and I could attack someone that would be
teaching this approach but I'm the same
guy that tells you what's going to
happen before it happens to the tick
and I've created millionaire students
now okay it's documented I have other
people out there you're never going to
meet but now you see these people they
brought the receipts forward and it is
what it is no one can argue against that
so they're using the things I'm teaching
but not all of you are equipped to get
to their ability or prowess right away
it's going to take you a little bit of
time so how do you graduate into that
the right way not rushed not feeling
like you missed the right playlist on my
YouTube channel that could have made it
easier for you the 2024 playlist is the
right one because everything I've said
here I've counted you at different parts
and times to go into other playlists for
certain and specific reasons but getting
into the marketplace for the first time
hitting the ground running listen to
someone that's telling you beforehand in
real price action using real money not
always a demo account the stuff works
and you could stop your job very easily
within 18 months now there's going to be
people say hey we're going to teach you
how to get this in 12 weeks or
less I promise you you're going to
Crash and Burn I promise you
that's always high pressure sales it's
always guaranteed that's exactly what it
is okay I'm trying to remind you that
there is no race here there's no Sprint
required and you need to take your time
in the beginning because everybody and
myself was included in this if you
rushed this in the beginning or if
you've been doing it for years and
you've not been able to find
consistency the shest way to get there
is lower your
expectation and aim for the easiest
objective yes it's sexy if you could get
a short and trade and get out at the low
of the new week opening Gap yes it would
absolutely be impressive to me too I
would give you hey man well done
awesome but I'm more impressed for
someone that's brand new to admit that
they don't have the skill set yet but
they're aiming for it and they're
working diligently every single day to
acquire that and then by doing these
things aiming for something that's lwh
hanging fruit very easy objective and
they're consistently hitting it you know
what that
means they're a better Trader than the
guy or gal that says hey this week or
this day I got that Target that one
time which one's going to be more apt to
be able to replicate it getting the new
week opening Gap low on a short every
single time you take a short or hitting
your $250
Target clearly it goes without saying
the person that has a very low hanging
fruit objective making $250 so if your
trading is always based on the Olympic
feat result at the end if it's always
based on that always based on some
highend expectation that's really meant
to impress everybody else versus I'm
making money consistently and I'm not
working hard or struggling with stress
while doing it everybody body swinging
for the fence is always Sweating Bullets
believe me their is puckering
every single time their trades in draw
down while they're in it and they still
might be Prof at the end of that trade
but while it's ticking against them they
tighter than a bull's ass
squeezing up squeezing up thinking oh
man here's here here it comes here it
comes the eventual loser is going to
come and here it is at my highest
leverage and that's when they that's
when it's absolutely going to come but
you know what happens when you trade
with the lowest threshold objective in
mind your goal is a very small easily
reached objective when you're brand new
you're teaching yourself to take more
emphasis and place it behind consistency
versus I need to make more money to that
so I can be impressive to my loved one
my partner my co-workers
myself or the people online that don't
give a about you they don't care
about you they don't care about you and
you're trying to win these people over
that you're never going to hang out with
you're never going to come to dinner on
Thanksgiving you're not buying them
anything for Christmas and they sure as
h't giving you anything but you place so
much emphasis on pleasing these other
people versus spending the time
properly with very sober-minded
procedures and routines that you're
trying to follow every single day it's
about being consistent folks and until
you find that consistency if you're not
motivated to be
consistent you're going to be
inconsistent consistently
and that means you're not going to be
profitable that means you're going to be
blowing accounts going in a draw down
losing your accounts losing funding
accounts or never getting your prop firm
funded that's that's going to be a cycle
you stay in and you're going to listen
to videos and talks like this and you'll
say you know what that was the right
thing I needed to hear that ICT or
whoever else you're listening to and
you'll be motivated for that moment
until you go out there and do the same
things you have not learned to stop
doing and then you're going to right
back to the same thing I need somebody
to motivate me what would you do to tell
what would you tell somebody that has
consistently really trying hard to make
money but are unprofitable listen to
these
lectures listen to these these are the
things that's going to fix you these are
the things that plague every Trader if
they do it long enough that they stay in
the business long enough these are all
problems that everyone encounters and
there's a lot of times that we want to
go back in time and fix the things that
we didn't do
correctly and that's the way I teach I
teach so that way you don't have to make
the mistakes that I did because I'm
trying to keep my sons from making those
mistakes you just are part of the
conversation because you're ease
dropping I'm making these conversations
public to
you so when I tell
Caleb son if you are aiming for
something and it is this is your
objective to try to draw to the highest
level in the clustering of two new week
opening gaps the purple woman's last
week's this is last week's high of the
new week opening Gap this is last week's
low of the new week opening Gap this is
this week's current high of the new week
opening Gap the midpoint of it or
consequent encouragment and the low of
this current week's new week opening Gap
all these levels down here are not
important to dead I don't care if you
hit them I don't care about that I don't
expect you to be able to hit those
levels but if you aim in the direction
of this level right here
and you short because that's the
bias and you short with a fair value Gap
that yields you
$250 and if it doesn't even come close
to this level but you still can hit
$250 I'm
impressed I'm G say that another way you
don't need it to hit your
target your target is this the best case
scenario that's DET terminous that means
this is the best you could hope for at
the time based on your current prow and
understanding and skill
set but if you're
trading and you don't have a whole lot
of skills set behind you your prowess is
low your output in terms of consistently
profitable is going to be very very
low so to keep yourself from beating
yourself up in your journal or feeling
negative feelings while you're in the
trade because you're having too high of
expectation aim for something that
yields you whatever that dollar amount
is and live there for a couple months
while you're learning other
things because what you're doing is
you're fortifying the ability and proof
that you can be
consistent that you can follow rules in
a model and money isn't the uh
instigation for you to break your rules
because that's what everybody does every
single time I break rules and I break
them so today I outthink my models I try
to do other things and it's because I'm
trying to stick the thumb in somebody
else's eye that has said something that
may or may not be true and I just want
to be an instigator I want to be a
troublemaker that day so you know I fall
victim to social media a lot because I I
find it fun but I'm not going to blow my
brains out because someone doesn't think
I'm profitable or I'm not a good Trader
because I could get two shits I can go
out here every single day and prove that
I am and and still today they they see
it's a live account and they're like
well it's a demo account the out of
here you're a clown they're literally
saying at amp account says on a demo
account I want somebody to go out there
and open up a amp demo account and log
into it with trading View and let's see
if it says amp life out of
here man these people are clowns
but if my son or any one of my students
go out there and they consistently hit
that Target every single day and they're
doing it with the idea that they're
aiming for a a a direction okay because
every one of us when we first start
we're like sailboats without a Rudder
meaning wherever the wind blows us
that's where we're going to go and
that's why it's so easy the system hop
oh this person's getting a lot of
attention right now oh what do they do
oh they're using vwap may maybe I should
put a vwap on my chart oh what are they
doing they're doing supply and demand
with Elliot wave and white cof Blended
oh well maybe I should add that stuff
too no no no no no no no if I'm gonna
say this
okay if you're going to learn from me
you're going to put down everything else
because I'm going to criticize any blank
of anything because really what you're
doing is you're you're going to dilute
the effects and efficacy of what it is I
teach by placing emphasis on things that
have no bearing on why price goes up and
down so if you're going to be a student
of my work you need to cast everything
else to the side because it's all
it's all time and price that's
all that it is but I have little
artifacts and price action that help you
identify when these elements are coming
into The Fray where it's going to call
Market that do certain things and when
they're not there you do nothing but if
you're not going to be a student of my
stuff don't use any of my stuff and fall
in line with whatever anybody else is
teaching you and see how that see how
that yields for you and whoever's
teaching you they need to be focusing on
things that I'm sharing in the
long-winded stuff because you can tell
when somebody's made a lot of money and
has been around the block for a long
time because they're going to give you
advice that makes a lot of sense and
it's going to fly in the face of what
you think you should be doing that's how
you know right away that somebody has a
little bit more wisdom than you and I
rejected that when I was younger I
rejected that on the on the things that
mattered the most when people were
trying to suggest that I shouldn't risk
so much money I was like not me I'm
going to go in there as much leverage I
can put on that's what I'm putting on
because I have to quit my job I got to
get out of the Rat
Race well
Caleb he just experience getting fired
he lost the job because of output his
ability to keep up with a
quota that they raised
up he wasn't able to meet that criteria
so now he has to work at a job out of
state he spends more money in
commuting that's the that's the outcome
and I could be the Dad that says here
you go son here's $100,000 for this year
live comfortably and then in January
I'll give you $100,000 live comfortably
and just do whatever you want to do and
just be a
bum I could be
that but that's not what I want so now
the motivation that is required to learn
this he has it now because he knows what
it tastes like when you're eating the
from the shovel that they give you
and call it a
job he knows what it feels like now
so that motivation to learn how to do
this is highest than it's ever
been and for some of you it's going to
take those types of lessons in life
where something's taken from you or
hardship
comes and you're you're forced to say
okay what am I doing this for am I
really in here trying to get worshiped
by other people on social media is that
really going to pay my bills is that
really going to make me a better Trader
or is
it something as simple as saying where's
the market going to go how can I find a
way to facilitate a mechanism or model
that says I'm buying or selling today
what is that well it's two different
things here
Blended a gap
opening at 9:30 based on previous day
settlement so the first 30 minutes right
away you know the bias is based on that
Gap half that Gap filling but what
happens when half that Gap filling also
yields something beyond that where you
have clusterings of the new day opening
um or sorry yeah new day opening gap or
new week opening Gap
what happens when that is in the in the
story line too then you have much more
likelihood of the
70% probability of that half of the Gap
from 9:30 opening bell and previous day
settlement filling or or printing and
then full Gap closure or three4 Gap
closure or even more until we get into
the highest level of clustered new week
opening gaps or New Day opening
gaps both of these are indicating that
the Market's going to go lower right
from the opening
bell so we're not even trying to predict
the closing price we're not trying to
predict the weekly range direction we're
not doing any of those things we're
looking at gorilla Warfare techniques
where you just go in there okay if if
you walked out your house and hit
the fan all hell breaks loose in your
neighborhood you do you know what you're
going to do how you're going to react
what are you going to
do by trading this way Caleb is not
required to have everything else that I
have made available to all of you on my
YouTube channel it gives him something
to focus on right here right now which
is the reason why I said 2024 is the
perfect starting
point there's other things you can learn
in all the other playlists but you
should start here at this one if you've
never done anything else with my work
because it's over top of live price
action it's giving you something that is
intended for my own son it's not
wishy-washy it's not ambiguous it
they're very very specific things I've
given you in 2024's mentorship I peel
back all of the the fluff okay and where
it's necessary the talking points like
I'm doing
today it's to remind you the importance
of why I teach the way I teach last week
I covered the these these conditions
here when there's no
news and it's in a Monday you trade what
pre-market
session that means before 9:30 opening
bell but even if you're going to trade
after the 9:30 opening bell just expect
it to be high resistance liquidity
conditions that means there's going to
be a lot of give and take back and forth
price action so if you look at what
we've done here you thought I would
never talk about a
chart the uh nine
o00 High here which is that
old I was showing you last week we were
looking for these old highs back here
relative equal highs so we had this high
and this high and then the higher one
back
here so all those levels were traded to
last week and then we were working those
same levels here initially
on Monday and finally we traded up into
the lower one here and we broke down
aggressively so at 9:30
right here on this candles stick
there that's where we start trading and
we have this Cy here cellid balance byid
efficiency it means it's
singular one candle creating this one
big black candle
down price is going to want to reach up
into that okay and this is actually
framed on a 15sec chart so don't be
wigging out not thinking oh he doesn't
have it drawn on right okay it's because
I was looking at a 15-second chart at
the time when I created that but you
would have it noted like this on the one
minute chart so that's what it would
look like on on one
minute
right there okay so the market has this
inefficiency and at the same time we
have a gap higher so previous day
settlement we opened up here at 9:30
Eastern Time previous day settlements
down
here so it's a huge opening range
Gap if we do our standard
measurement opening price down
to previous settlement here's half Gap
or consequent encroachment of the
opening range Gap
we opened here we traded down till here
inside of the first 30 minutes so again
for the Yahoo out there saying uh ict's
lying it's not 70% accurate that it
fills half the Gap within the first 30
minutes of trading how many times have
you seen it now how many times have you
seen it right so we have the market
trade aggressively lower right from the
opening bell we rally up into that Cy
sell sign balance buyid and efficiency
trades then lower from there into the
half Gap here fails to get down into new
week opening Gap High characteristic of
what high resistance liquidity
conditions yes it's likely to trade down
a will it do it on its first pass no
will it do it on seconds pass no
retracement consolidation get real close
to it oh no not yet and then finally
boom it drops down and hits
it so every one of these price swings in
here this is high resistance liquidity
conditions meaning that we know we can
determine where the Market's going to go
to and where it's going to reach for but
it's not going to deliver in a single
oneway ticket ride right to it with no
retracements of any uh significance
that's the type of trading I'm teaching
you to look for Caleb those easy trading
days those easy conditions if you base
all of your trading on that your draw
down will be next to nothing your losing
days will be next to nothing your fear
by by being in the market will be
zero length of time in trade
lowest and your profits will be easily
met like
that now think about who you learn from
everyone of you that are listening how
many books have you read how many
courses have you been part of of and how
many mentorships did you buy into how
many live streamers do you listen to
they don't have a way of being able to
filter out the chaff because every day
is a trading
day yeah yeah I guess it is but the
outcome may not be favorable for you if
you're brand new and you're listening to
these yahoos that have jobs are going to
tell you
something that may not be impactful for
your EMB betterment that may actually be
problematic to you but you get caught up
in the frenzy of I want to be part of
the click I want to be part of that
community that community that Community
whatever you know who was in my trading
room with me when I'm taking trades none
of
you I'll say it this way who's in their
cheerleading me and telling me what
trade to get into and where to place my
stop and patting me on the back when I
made $25,000 in 10 minutes who who's
there patting me on the back when I'm
making six figures inside of two hours
who's who's doing that none of
you I don't need those things you don't
need them either you don't need to be
part of the ICT
Community you don't need to be a part of
anybody's Community you need to be a
community of one an island UN in and of
yourself completely separated from
everybody else because the minority is
the right mindset
here you want to be independent a sniper
they don't go out there and hold hands
walking through the forest or the Tall
Grass getting to their their Kill Zone
where they're going set up shop and
start going after everybody they don't
do
that by themselves very very slowly they
work their way to their area they take
them days to get to that level of where
they're stationed to take that shot lot
of preparation by themselves and their
whole basis is what
Precision not
teamwork precision
independent done by themselves that's
exactly what trading is it's not a
Fanfare event it's not a team effort and
a lot of you want that team effort stuff
you want me to sit out here and put you
in the same trade I'm in and I'm trying
to teach you that that won't
work that won't work because if there if
I'm teaching you if I'm teaching you
that there is an entity out there that
will
cannibalize that will absolutely
cannibalize
very
easily obtained liquidity because it
cost them nothing to reprice to that
price or Beyond
it it's easy to do
that you don't want to say hey I'm a
sniper I'm trying to get the best entry
there is and then I'm going to make that
entry more complicated for me to get
that fill because 10,000 people watching
my live stream are doing that and people
that are using me as a sounding board to
sound smart they're running little
signal services and they're going to
have their following follow them and 15
to 20 people in their group are selling
signals based on what they're seeing
this person do what are you doing you're
building a huge pool of liquidity that
if I'm running price I'm going to tag
that liquidity I'm gonna snatch it up
just like
that none of you that talk this
stuff prove that you've ever listened to
me I'm trying to get in when nobody's
expecting it to be an entry that's what
I'm trying to explain to
you I'm not trying to have everybody dog
pile on the same entry point I am that
makes no damn sense what the who
wants to do that I don't want anybody I
don't want no dingleberries on my ass
when I'm going into the wheel in in the
field trying to get my meat when I'm
going in hunting I'm not out there
banging pots and pans look at me hey
look at me over here I'm getting ready
to win this trade I'm getting right in
here you see where I'm putting my stop
hello they're not doing I'm not doing
that you shouldn't be doing that you
want to be going in there when nobody's
paying
attention think about how I teach you
use these live streamers chat window
when they're doing everything opposed to
what you're expecting to
do that's a green light to do it why
would you invite more people to do the
very thing that you're trying to do the
best of there's only one Podium space
for number one have you noticed that
it's not a shared platform
so every time I go out there and I take
a trade I want to be the only person in
the number one spot Podium I don't want
to share that with anybody else you can
call that whatever you want to call it
but that's just the Realties because if
I'm going to show you where I'm getting
in I'm doing it with a demo account
because that demo is not going to take
anything from
me but when I'm live trading I'm in
there to make money I don't want
to make that that whole task to be
complicated because now I have
competition trying to get that
fill 10,000 people even if 2% of those
are competing for the same price that
I'm aiming for I may not get my
fill if you don't understand that you
clearly don't know what the you're
doing you have no idea what you're
talking about or even what you're
learning because they're not going to
let you get your price if it's already
been fulfilled by others getting in that
price before you they're not obligated
to give you your price just you have a
limit order sitting there they're not
obl the market is not obligated to give
you what you
want that's the complexities of this so
you have to find a way for you to be the
minority be that sniper that goes out
there single-handedly and aims for that
price you're trying to take that's your
mark That's your entry that's the thing
you're waiting for to go into your
crosshairs and when it steps in there
boom you don't try to make any attention
to it until you're out of the trade
because then they can't strip it out of
your
hands you see these people out there oh
look at this I'm sharing my trade look
at this hasn't gone to my profit yet I'm
not really showing my profit yet I don't
have stop loss on but look at this I've
open unrealized profit you impressed
no I'm not
impressed I'm not impressed by that now
Tom Dick and Harry over here you they
just signed on to X for the first time
and they just started learning about
Bitcoin so now they're like wow he's got
$600 in open profit he's making more
money than I earned my job and all of a
sudden they get a following that
way no no so we have several things here
leading to Caleb arriving at a bias we
have a large gap opening higher and then
we have the clustering of the new week
opening gaps down here below it so below
half the gap which is consequent
encroachment here that's the difference
between Friday
settlement and today's 9:30 opening bell
price first print
70% of the time in the first 30 minutes
is going to trade half the Gap you've
seen it again happen Okay what happens
if you have a day like today when there
is no news medium impact or high impact
clustering of the new day and or new
week opening gaps below price because
you're opening up here at 9:30 and the
mid gap which you'll have a rough idea
an approximation is going to be in this
vicinity anyway before it actually opens
there so like a minute or two before
9:30 you can get a rough idea where that
mid gap's going to be at so what do you
do as soon as our Market opens
up what do you
guess it's sitting right inside this
inefficiency here extend it over it's
spent some time in here traded above it
it's going to act as what inversion
at the opening bell we're already we're
already at a premium
level price is below and old in
efficiency we have sell side below here
and we have opening range Gap consequent
encroachment level down here so that's
your 70% likelihood it's going to trade
there but what happens if you have the
other things that we're talking about
here for Caleb's model new day opening
gaps or new week opening gaps that are
clustered that means they're they're
overlapping one another you only need
one level overlapping it doesn't need to
inside of like like it does here if you
have two levels that are over top of one
another but it causes the range of the
highest high and the low Lev of any one
new day opening Gap or new week opening
Gap to encroach on the range of another
that's clustering that means that
they're
they're they're going to act as a big
magnet for price and the first thing you
do is find out whatever the highest
level is between the two uh clustered uh
new week opening gap or New Day opening
gaps and that's this here the new week
open Gap high for the current week it
doesn't trade to it here but Caleb
doesn't need that that's just a draw
that's the right
direction that's just the right
direction think
about think about where you are in in
the United States if you're listening
okay for the folks in the United States
I don't know how to explain this in
other people's countries because you
know I don't know very much about your
geography where you're at what you have
in your in
your country like I don't know but in
United States every single city has some
kind of an arena or Stadium okay and if
you're trying to get someone directions
to get to that Stadium like if we wanted
to take them to Baltimore Ravens uh
Arena you know or
Stadium I have several ways that I can
get there because I know where it's
at but for someone that's out of town
and they've never been in Marland before
I can say look I know you're looking for
this Stadium okay if you take this road
to you know 95 south or 95 North if
you're below it um it'll take you to
this General location and then you can
start finding the signs okay that's
basically how you start trading in the
marketplace you got to get yourself in
the right general area of profitability
and over time you find all these little
subtle ways of getting closer to the
best seats at that Stadium to watch the
big game the big game is the payout the
profit
but you can get somebody that's never
been in an area before in the general
proximity and then they can find the
signs that they have to be looking for
meaning PD array some kind of exit
strategy so if this is where you were
trying to get the market to repic to
that height of the new week opening gap
for this week that's just a magnet draw
on price it does not need to trade
there so if you see this and it trades
back up into this inefficiency
the single Candlestick down here and it
trades back up into that if you don't
sell right at the opening which is
exactly what you could be doing why why
just blindly go in there and sell how
could you trust that ICT because we're
at a premium array right from Jump
Street think about how we were opening
at 9:30
right in here okay all this
range all this back and forth
consolidation that area here that was a
inversion Fair bag up as
well all this inefficiency here that was
used
there when we started trading down below
it right before the opening bell right
here right there
the opening price is sitting right
inside that inversion fair value
Gap after it's already taken the upper
half of that inversion fair value Gap
after leaving the higher inversion fair
value Gap here when we have no
news new week opening gaps as a draw and
the gap
opening at
930 using uh regular trading hours and
previous day settlement half the Gap is
here so what is it going to do think
it's going to just start rallying up
here no why would it it's going to make
a Mad Dash to try to get down into half
Gap 70% probability it's going to do
that in the first 30
minutes here's 10
o'clock right
there did it at that time or before
trade to the mid Gap was it that red
line of course it did does it right here
so in 19
minutes so it literally ran to it filled
it delivered price to half the Gap but
do you just say okay it's
done no because there's a draw
Still lower with those new week opening
gaps that are clustered last week's new
week opening Gap and current new week
opening Gap that's below mid Gap
indicating that today we're going to
probably see High Resistance liquidity
conditions why is it going to be high
resistance liquidity conditions because
there's no economic data and it's a
Monday so best trading is pre-market
session and you can see that on the
example I showed on Twitter you can see
the PD I use of very two simple simple
ones and I use London lows as a relative
equal low to draw down
into but for Caleb's model it's simply
just going in here and taking a based on
the ideas that he can find a setup based
on a 15sec chart a 30 second chart a 45
second chart or a one minute
chart what would that be his PD array is
a fair value
guy so he has to look for something like
like this Cy here breaking down you
can't have that one but now you have
this the smaller one in here when it
trades back up into that he has to see
price move away from that because he
cannot enter on first presented fair
value Gap until
9:31 what time is it at the bottom of
the chart right here when this
forms it's still in the first minute of
trading 9:30 so he has to see a
displacement he can look at this one and
say okay I want to see it move lower it
does move lower but it's doing it in a
fuzzy type delivery where it's back and
forth price action this is high
resistance liquidity run conditions
where the where each one of the
candlesticks go back and forth they're
generally moving lower I'm not arguing
against
that it's important that you observe
that but it's also more important that
you understand how it's delivering it
we're not getting runs like this where
it's big exposure left open and it
continues back and then leaves these
little areas open it's back and forth
each range is overlapping a lot of the
previous candles high and low whatever
the previous candle high and low the
next candle does a lot of overlapping
over the same type of price action high
and low of the previous range of every
subsequent candles stick that forms it's
usually overlapping the previous
Candlestick to some degree at least half
of the Candlestick and when you're
seeing that fuzziness at back and forth
type scribbling if you
will that is high resistance at it's not
going to have a lot of elements of
precision in
that so would you rather be shorting a
market that has a lot of this type of
stuff in here versus something like this
where it has a real big quick delivery
and goes lower this is low
resistance this is high resistance it's
a lot of deep
retracements and inefficiencies are far
and few between whereas in low
resistance liquidity runs there's lots
of inefficiencies there because speed is
the
mechanism speed is the mechanism of
delivery where price is in a hurry to
book something it's see going higher or
lower and in a very sudden fast
way that's how I'm teaching my sons
that's how I'm teaching you as my
students to look for conditions that
afford you these fast yielding targets
being hit very little retracements no
consolidations
whatsoever just run to Target and be
done and go live your life go do
something else outside the
charts because you can spend a lot of
time trading in these conditions here
and you're just going to be thinking
well it's going to clean up sooner later
and I'll be here when it does not when
not when economic calendar is like it is
today no news on a Monday
hello so we can be right about the
direction but we can also say I can be
right about Direction but I'm going to
try to get my signal or set up in early
and if I don't get it in the first 30
minutes I'm just going to toss it out
and just be done so Caleb he can see
after it runs up into this Gap here
overshoots a little bit trades in the
upper portion of of this one
and it breaks outside that pink shaded
area which is a c on one minute chart
you can see the body's respecting the
low of that one minute chart defined low
of that again Cy it doesn't look like
one single candle here because it takes
two candles on a 15-second chart to do
it but the one minute chart has the one
single pass down that that's why this is
anchored to the points that it is the
load of that is supporting and
respecting the bodies or the bodies
rather respecting the low of that and
then we displace there it drops
aggressively and then you have your
first clean fair value G right there see
it right here so it looks like
this this is not
9:30 candle it's after 9:30 so it
minimum is at
9:31 yes it's
937 so he has he has the ability rather
to take that trade he can take that
trade he can get short in that fair
value Gap but what else is inside that
range if you're looking at this
Candlestick right
here to have that framed for risk what
where did it leave this Cy up
here so if it left this Cy when it does
here and it breaks and gives you this
fair value Gap here if we didn't have
price so close to that Cy low the the
the bottom of that rectangle shaded area
if it wasn't so close to it like it is
here on a day where it's already what
indicating it's going to be high
resistance we already have indications
that it's high resistance because it's a
lot of back and forth price delivery do
you do you think that Caleb would go
with Max leverage in a trade like that
no no he would not one contract that's
it he has to start with one contract but
when he gets to the point where he can
trade with multiple contracts on a day
like this this he has to trade with
one now normally when you have the
single candle in the middle that creates
the fair value Gap you can use the high
for that for the stop loss but because
we're so close to the low of that range
that is the Cy this pink shaded area
here you have to use number one candle's
high and I've covered this in mentorship
2024 when do I use the the stop at the
middle candle versus the Candlestick
that creates number one candle a fair
value Gap is always three candles number
one first candle number two is always
the actual Gap the range that doesn't
share space between number one candle
and number three
candle so if you're shorting the low
probability I'm sorry I'm sorry I said
that wrong the lowrisk stop loss is
using the high of a bearish fair value
gaps number two candlesticks High plus
one tick but because we're so close to
the low that it could very easily come
back up here and touch
that it can retrade that that why why
would we expect something that as a as a
potential event because of it being a
high resistance liquidity run condition
Market versus if it was in a low
resistance liquidity run condition he
could take a short in this fair value
Gap and then use the number two
Candlestick plus one tick as a stop but
as it is here because of the conditions
as it is for high resistance it's a
Monday with new news it's already
indicating a lot of back and forth even
though that we can see that clearly has
the ability to reach lower because the
clustered new week opening gaps and the
70% likelihood of trading and filling
half of the opening range Gap so you
have a lot of things drawing price down
but just because you think it's going to
go down there and it's likely to go down
there doesn't mean that your entry is
going to be respected without having a
stop out so that means you have to use
the maximum which is the Candlestick
number one it's high and that would be
here plus one tick that means you're in
side of that shaded pink area you're not
you're not getting stopped out here
Caleb and you roll back underneath it
and then it comes back up and trades
back to that fair value Gap again it's
here hits it breaks
lower comes down and there's your Gap
70% filled in the first 30 minutes CL at
a time okay I I'll leave it to you if
you think 70% is most of the time I
would consider that most of the time
seven times out of 10 you're doing it
right and you have a favorable outcome I
think that's a pretty good odd and I
think many people like they are leaving
comments in
the the section of of X when I'm posting
things or in my comment section of my
videos which you don't get to see but I
see them a lot one of the things that I
find fascinating is people's excitement
of how this phenomenon of half the Gap
being filled 7% of time in first 30
minutes trading how often they're seeing
that do it and how often they're finding
winning trades that are making them
money
that's what it's all about folks finding
something that's simple that doesn't
have a whole lot of moving Parts I can
complicate things I complicated
really 12 models in mentorship paid
mentorship and I I yielded those first
12 I have two of that were kind of easy
they real easy bread buner uh bread
butter winners um but the others I
complicated them me I meant to do it
that way because I had people in there
selling my mentorship I had people in
there leaking my stuff so I said okay
well you know let see how well you do
with sharing it knowing full well that I
would come back into them and strip them
down and comp compartmentalize them and
you know see what you have here it's a
lot of different smaller little models
that you can use inside of those models
but what I was actually building is a
great deal of refinement that most
people will not be willing to subject
themselves to so many rules that are
very specific that they're not going to
want to do it but they are profitable
absolutely profitable but you have to
sit wait for very very specific things
now contrast those 12
models with coming out here and looking
at time based models because time is the
first aspect to algorithmic price
delivery if you know that there's going
to be a move in the first 30 minutes and
uh one of my students
asked do I subscribe to an idea that
there's an algorithm at 9930 that messes
up price when there's no news um well
the first 30 minutes is a script okay so
um I I don't want to say that it's a
macro uh but it is a script like all
every day you know every minute of the
day unless it's intervention the market
is underneath AI it's being delivered by
a script so the opening range that's why
I said there is no 15minute opening
range okay I understand there's people
out there looking a used Q-tip okay
putting a lot of money into used cars
they'll say there's a 15-minute opening
range Gap there or not Gap but opening
range there's no 15 the algorithm has
absolutely no respect for for the first
15 minutes that's I don't care
what anybody
says but for f for the first 30 minutes
and first 60 minutes it's 30 minutes and
60 minutes and after that you have
everything you need for the daily range
to be defined you can pick the high and
the low of the day after the first 60
Minutes first 30 minutes based on how
price is delivered you can get the
higher low of the Day based on that but
there's certain quirky little things
that I'm going to Ral that tell you when
to use the first 30 minutes or versus
the first hour to get the daily highing
low within three ticks but you being
able to do that on a steady diet of
every day that's not going to happen
there's going to be a lot of factors
that we're going to see that like today
there's certain things that you're going
to be met with in terms of high
probability versus low
probability high probability it's going
to trade the
midgap yes what happens if it wouldn't
have done it today in the first 30
minutes but did it at like
11:00 okay you would say okay well it
did it again it just didn't do it in the
first 30 minutes wonderful but it's not
all that important because it's a high
resistance liquidity Day meaning that
it's going to be a lot of give and take
back and forth but it just so happens
that H today even a high resistance
conditions it trades to midgap so 70%
strike rate is still hit and banging
just like that today even in a complex
delivery day like it is
today the
bias trading to the easiest low hanging
for objective for Caleb would be new
week opening Gap high but he doesn't
need
that notice that he doesn't need that so
back to his entry back
here he sees displacement off a higher
time frame array which is the one minute
Cy that's that pink box up here then he
goes into the lower time frame and he
waits and sees does price respect it
look at the bodies are they respecting
it yes sends price where lower and then
he gets his Gap
price trades back up into it he can
enter into that Gap he has a little bit
of heat here but guess what you're going
to have trades where it's going to have
heat that means little bit of draw down
it doesn't stop you out it shouldn't
cause you to bail out of the trade it
just means that you got to go through a
coule couple moments of uncomfortable
price action you have to weather that
okay so he has a little bit of heat in
here remember he's he's entering down
here at the the low of the Gap he's not
allowed to do mid Gap he's not allowed
to get the high of the Gap he's not
allowed to use any Mohawks which should
be entering on Wicks above that Gap he
has to enter as it trades one tick below
and that's his entry that would be here
on that Candlestick right there that's
his fill so he sees initially what his
favor aiming for that
low think about
it that's all he's looking for it's in
the direction of mid Gap it's in the
direction of new week opening Gap high
but because his skill set is so modest
it's next to nothing right now how does
he grow in his confidence how does he
stay motivated because it's real easy to
be demotivated it's real easy to talk
yourself out of doing this and wan to
jump into a new system or a new Guru or
a new
something distracting yourself from the
obvious which is you not doing what it's
required to be consistent you have to
put effort into anything whoever you're
teaching whoever's teaching you rather
if they're not telling you it's going to
take effort on your part they're lying
to you and when you discover that you're
going to feel stupid because you
probably paid them money and they didn't
teach you
here I'm teaching you how to do
this correctly if it's good enough for
my kids I promise you it's good enough
for
you so if he's aiming for this low for
sell side because it's in the direction
from the entry on this fair value Gap
aiming to get below that low he doesn't
need the mid Gap to be traded to he
doesn't need the new week opening Gap
High to be traded to to make his money
to make his meal ticket for the day but
he has
initial profits running for him and they
yank it from
him all the way back up and above his
entry but not to his stop which would be
in that little red box on above that
candlestick's high this is
uncomfortable but eventually it breaks
that back down below it and then he sees
it come back here trades back lower back
in here and then finally hits
midgap should Caleb or should you feel
depression about that because it hit hit
where you thought it was going to
go
no just because you you exit once it
starts to break down and goes to your
first low hanging for objective which
would be below this low here remember
it's about making money consistently and
not losing more than you
should focusing on a consistent routine
a protocol a process that yield you a
very easy lwh hanging fruit objective
getting money getting money get it go
it's it's very surgical strikes it's
hit-and run trading that's kind of like
what I called it when I was on Merc um
Internet relay chat back in uh the 90s
when I was running and hosting a S&P
Channel at a th people in the room and
that's only because that's all that it
would allow it wouldn't allow anything
more than a thousand people at the time
when I was using it so with that
limitation I had as many as I could in
that room
and what I taught was hit and run stra
uh strategies where we would go in get
two and a half to three Handles in the
S&P out the door we're done simple as
that there was no long-winded ICT stuff
like this video here it was I want to
get in get out I want to get in and get
out because I was nervous to be in front
of people talking I'm I'm I'm naturally
introvert if we were talking like this
in front of a group of people I'd be far
less likely to have a conversation like
this because I'm just introverted I like
to be quiet but because I'm in my office
right now by myself I'm talking to my
children in my mind I'm I'm talking to
them so by having these surgical strikes
these hit and run trading opportunities
where you're getting in a logical level
framing risk at a logical level and
aiming for a very easy objective in the
right direction
guess what this affords him over time
doing this it will teach him how to hold
on to the trade to get to half
Gap it'll teach him to hold on to the
trade to get to First threshold on the
new week opening Gap or New Day opening
gaps high on the shorts or lows on the
Longs meaning if you're short he's
always going to use the highest level of
clustered new week opening gaps or New
Day opening gaps level as his draw
that's his Target it never even trades
down to it and this pass here then comes
all the way back up and above his entry
and then it would have stopped him out
there see that that's high resistance
conditions you can be right about the
direction you can see a trade start
moving for you in in profit come back up
and save you from being stopped out and
eventually give you an objective to get
out properly if you took a partial or
you closed the trade but generally if
you have never been trained to look at
the market like this in two camps it's
high resistance liquidity run conditions
that means it's back and forth price
action
or low resistance run conditions where
it's this one shot right to your target
thank you very much wham bam thank you
ma'am and out the door you go it's one
night stand trading baby there's no
guilt in it there's no STDs none of that
stuff it's simple easy pleasurable
trading get out the door and go no
guilt there's a whole lot of regret and
guilt when you're trading in this it's
like getting caught cheating every time
you go out the door you're always
worried about getting caught doing
something you should have been doing
that's the difference between High
Resistance and low resistance I'm
teaching you son to learn how to read
price action so that way you're trading
and in engaging with low resistance that
means you're not going to trade every
day if you haven't realized that yet for
the folks that are listening to that
means you're probably not going to trade
every day and that's not a bad thing
that's not a bad thing what happens when
you come to the realization and say you
know what this is probably G to take a
whole lot more emphasis and not emphasis
but attention and uh attention that I
don't really want to spend when I know I
can got up another day later in the week
where it'll be a lot easier in low
resistance so I I I'll put the risk on
in those days and I'll go I'll go
fishing or I'll do something else with
my family members or I'll just won't
worry about it and whatever happens in
the
marketplace I won't beat myself up about
it and then when you come back and you
see how oh yeah I could have took that
trade could to trade but it would have
stopped me out you know and trailing
stop losses in high resistance liquidity
run conditions is a death
nail you've seen me managing my trades
where sometimes I'll have the trade with
the stop is just covering costs that
means wherever I got in at it's covering
the commission cost fees and maybe puts
100 bucks in my pocket so it pays me for
my effort and time and worst case
scenario if I get stopped out yeah I
made 100 bucks you I get pizza dinner
for the you kids and there you go but
here you don't want to Trail your stop
loss because
look at the price action when it's high
resistance that means it's likely to
overlap the previous candlesticks range
that's that's the easiest simplest
definition for high resistance liquidity
runs that means it's going to spend a
lot of time overlapping in the previous
candles range whatever the highest high
and the lowest low for that previous
candle is expect that same overlap the
next candle back and forth over top of
it next candle overlap back and forth
over top of next candle back and forth
over top of the previous candle range I
don't want to be trading in those I
don't know about you folks I don't like
trading in these conditions I have
better things that I could be doing
instead of worrying about having to be
precise in a market condition that's
going to
steal rob you of
precision and it's going to beat you up
by retracements more times than you want
to see happen so my question to you in
the live stream audience that are
listening or watching it later on when
it's appropriate for you to do
so are you more inclined to want to be
in an environment like this where you
have to worry about if you ever move
your stop loss you're probably going to
get prematurely stopped out and never
see the targets trade
to before you know getting stopped out
or would you find yourself
more prone to seek opportunities where
the market doesn't have so much of an
interest that's vested in coming back
and stopping you out prematurely because
you're in a low resistance liquidity run
condition Market where it just moves
really free and loose it just goes right
to Target like it's in a hurry and has
something go and do something else
that's that that's what you want to be
trading in Caleb that's the market
conditions you want to trade in and they
have very simplistic characteristics
that it indicates before the the market
trading day starts it it shows you how
it's going to look like that before it
does and conversely as I'm teaching here
and as I taught last week there are
characteristics that overlap where you
can see the these harder conditions I'm
not saying it's impossible to trade but
it's harder for a new Trader to navigate
in this because it's a whole lot of EB
and flow back and forth price action
that's going to come back and stop out
any individual that has a trail stop
loss think about it this is your entry
area here and you have this displacement
leg it creates a little high here starts
to trade down here you expect it to
break that low and trade the mid Gap
right based on ICT stuff well now
compound that equation with you have
high res liquidity run conditions it's
going to fail to go below that low but
go back for anyone that's trailed stop
losses to that high and it goes right
into the fair value
Gap meaning what that's a fair value Gap
that's
reclaimed so when do re when do
reclaimed Fair Bay gaps most likely form
in high resistance liquidity
runs this son of a always hides
that stuff in that the latter parts of
these long discussions you're damn right
I do
because five minute guys that come in
here they want to look for these little
things they can go on their little
mentorship or put stuff in
their little shorts on
YouTube they're never even though they
compare it what I say they're never
going to be able to apply it because
they're looking for shortcuts and
shortcuts just means that you're getting
to the front of the line and blowing out
and losing your account that's what all
it is you're making a fast way to get to
no
profitability the folks that get in here
they roll their sleeves up they want to
learn every little detail every
intricate Nuance that I'm trying to
share
it's to make my son better equipped than
all of
you even my students that are here
listening my intentions are to keep my
children better than you but they have
to start here too and this is all useful
information if these are the lessons
that you only learned from me you're
light years ahead of everybody else
because you're learning to read price
action in a manner that no one else sees
it like no other school of thought
teaches this way no one else teaches
this way but by defining things in terms
of low resistance and high high
resistance liquidity run conditions it
affords you a different approach based
on whatever day or model or profile that
you're you're operating
in certain PD arrays are more prone to
exist and form in one profile versus
another
reclaimed means what it's revisiting it
do you expect that to happen in a low
resistance liquidity run condition hell
no Elvis has left the building goodbye
right to Target that's what I'm teaching
my kids to focus on that's what I taught
paid mentorship students to
do but they didn't want to sit through
these types of lectures like this this
is how I taught look at the look at the
lessons that I was teaching in the first
couple months conceptual conceptual
conceptual man is this guy ever going to
get the trading you got to learn a lot
of stuff man there's a lot of stuff that
is a
foundational uh
necessity to be able to different
differentiate easy trading conditions
versus a little bit more
complex and the the aggressive form of
what this is is Seek and Destroy which
it could have created that today but
this is not seek and destroy this is
this High Resistance liquidity run
conditions so it comes back and
reclaimed order blocks reclaimed fair
value gaps reclaimed everything any ped
it uses it uh
characteristic twice it's going to be
synonymous in high resistance liquidity
run conditions reclaimed order blocks
reclaimed fair value gaps in other words
two times touching um those generally
are going to be part of a market profile
like we have here where it's back and
forth High Resistance but eventually
usually when you're worn down and you're
not in a trade anymore then later in the
day it'll go down and touch the
objectives the new week opening Gap High
right here the first time it gets to it
here is at
11:43 but look at all this price action
sitting here sideways that'll wear you
down if you're expecting low resistance
real quick fast sudden runs no you're
going to lose your mind you're going to
want to Trail stop losses and it's going
to just it's going to stop you out
prematurely and then you're going to
wrestle about why you couldn't hold on
to the trade there or why didn't you see
the comments it Why didn't it go down
there and hit the new week opening Gap
right
there why aren't you you taking notes
when I'm teaching these things this
isn't the first time I taught
it it's throughout the entire compendium
on my YouTube
channel a lot of things that you ask
answers for require understanding other
things and other facets to the language
I've
created and by having that comp
comprehensive view of what it is I teach
it's easy Once you have a familiarity of
a lot of the things I teach broad
brushed approach then things that you
think are very very complex and
difficult to understand suddenly become
very clear to understand oh now I
understand why price didn't take that
relative equal low there yet why did it
leave these relative equal highs and why
didn't you wait for it to shoot up there
because there's conditions in the
marketplace that are going to promote a
different approach to taking trades in
that specific
environment and it's defined by high
resistance or low
resistance and it's very easy to notice
it even if you don't expect it but you
start seeing signatures in price action
how it's behaving where every individ
individual Candlestick is overlapping
the previous candlesticks range by the
majority that is indicating the the
clearest most visual
res the clearest most visual
representation of a high resistance
liquidity ground condition is every
subsequent candle is sharing the
previous candle's
range that's a very simple definition
isn't it versus AOW low resistance
liquidity run condition is the
candlesticks are a lot separ a lot more
separated between their highs and lows
and they're not sharing much of the same
range of the previous candle there's a
lot of big candles and that's exactly
what you want you don't want to be in
here waiting around forever for your
Target to get me you don't want to be
waiting for the spread to overcome and
and and move into a position of
unrealized profit holding on to that
throughout the entirety of your trade I
don't want to be in trades where I have
to wait for my trade to come out of
spread or initial draw down I don't want
to be in trades like that look at my
trades when I share my examples to you
they're always showing you what what are
the classic characteristics number one
it's quickly running in my favor my stop
losses are never exaggerated they're
never taking on more risk than it's
required and they're quickly moving in
my direction and I'm quickly able to
take off a partial or cover my costs and
I sit comfortably and there it is and I
manage my stop I cannot do listen to me
I cannot do the Mr Wizard's world of uh
stop-loss placement in high resistance
liquidity run conditions not to the same
degree that I do with low resistance
liquidity run conditions
because high resistance is already
indicating that there's probably going
to be an opportunity sometime in that
day or that session that manual
intervention will come in at means the
real market makers not the dealers that
go out there and try to stay delta
neutral okay that is not a market maker
I just listen to another Yahoo that has
a YouTube channel he's an Italian fellow
um you he he read somebody supposedly
that knows the ins and outs of the
marketplace and everything that came out
of that man's mouth absolute horeshit so
when you're talking about market makers
you don't even know who the hell you're
talking about you don't even know them
okay they're not dealers dealers are
trying to be delta neutral that's what
their job is and when there's a lot of
movement and displacement in price
action that is adverse for their
business model that is not what I'm
talking about a market maker is the
person The Entity
the facilitator of price where it
originates from it's not the buying and
sellers that's creating the origin of
price who who dictates the first print
opening bell you don't I
don't that's never us that's never us
where do we get the opening price on
Sunday that's never us that is never
going to be anybody at all that retail
control we can't control that but that
price is already determined before
already happen by Friday's close it
already they already know where they're
going to open it
up and that probably is unsettling to
you that means it's rigged and you
should be glad that it's rigged you
should not be upset that it's rigged
because if it wasn't rigged none of us
would make money we would have the same
odds that the lottery players have the
same odds that casino people that use
the slot machines usually I can't
remember what the name of those things
are but the slot machines have really no
skill set required to win it which means
there's no Edge there's no way except
for cruise through the aisles and wait
for somebody that's been sitting for a
long time to get up from that machine
and then you go over there and you put
more money in it and it pays out on
ratio it takes in so much before it pays
out it's rigged but you don't know how
much has been paid in before that will
pay
out so what I do is I teach you how to
look at how it's rigged look for those
moments where everything is indicating
that there's so many things that it's
going to move one-sided at this specific
time of the day very
important and it's less likely to do the
opposite of
that and if you can do those things when
it's not high resistance liquidity run
conditions that means there is a high
impact or medium impact news driver in
that trading session so that means
you're going to have some kind of
manipulation which is what we want
because we want to see them use that
smoke screen to get people that don't
know what they're doing on the wrong
side and when they see those individuals
come dog piling in that sentiment shift
because social media being what it is
what is the first thing you want to do
when you put a trade on and you start
seeing a little bit of profit already
you want to go and show everybody you
want to send me a picture of it you want
to send somebody else on Twitter
somebody else on whatever the
other social media mediums that you use
I'm in this trade
here you didn't say you were going to
take that trade but now because it's in
slight profit and you have a stop loss
protecting goes against you now you want
to talk about it and you want to see
other people p patch you on the back con
you congratulating
you that that is proof of the sentiment
ideas on
teaching so when the Judith swing takes
effect and when the market Su Prem
primarily rather bearish and you see a
little bit of a run
higher retail will chase that and think
it's going up or they'll put a breakout
order and if it goes a little bit higher
then they'll say okay I'm going to buy
that and stick with it and think it's
going to take me into
profit that sentiment shift is what
is kind of like that line on the sand
between those people that are impulsive
versus the people that know what they're
looking for and by understanding that
that
medium impact or high impact news driver
being in 8:30 or sometime inside of the
hour first hour
trading that is
essential That's essential for low
resistance liquidity run
conditions so having a medium impact or
high impact news driver is
synonymous with low resistance liquidity
run that does not mean very important
fact here okay it does not mean simply
because you have a medium impact or high
impact news driver or event in the
calendar that you're going to have a low
resistance liquidity run condition it
just means that that's the climate that
they exist in more than any other
there's some kind of manipulation that's
going to be used around these
reports and if you don't have those
things on your economic calendar then
the likelihood of you having a high
resistance liquidity
run it's more likely that's going to
happen because there's no news to
manipulate but when there is news that
means there's going to be manipulation
that means they're going to catch people
off side that means they're going to
trick people and put them in the wrong
side of the marketplace and if they get
put in the wrong side think about it why
would this logically be even
occurring why would there be low
resistance liquidity run conditions when
there's high impact or medium impact
news because they're going to put people
on the wrong side of the marketplace at
the most inopportune time for them when
they're going against them they're going
to be selling to them when they're
buying they're going to be buying when
they're selling to you know when the
retail is selling it they're buying it
they're going the other side of it
they're being counterparty and once they
have established the session higher low
in the first 30 minutes of
trading are they going to just slowly
move away from them and allow them to
think about what they're you think about
what they're doing and say well you know
let's let's think do I want to hold in
this trade that I'm losing money
consistently in no they don't want to
have any time for them to to get out and
take their orders out of the marketplace
so that's why medium impact or high
impact news drivers are indicative their
characteristics of low resistance
liquidity runs because the whole
mechanism of the price engine is it puts
people in on the wrong side during or
shortly after these impact drivers on
the economic calendar and they are not
going to afford them the opportunity to
close their trade because that's why the
market moves quick speed and magnitude
speed and distance these are the little
signatures I type out when I'm doing my
recordings because I expect these things
to happen because now retail's
trapped and they're not going to let
price move slowly down
and you think that everybody's like okay
we're all going to we're all going to
collectively decide to sell short real
fast real real abruptly to cause the
market to drop fast so that way those
Traders can't get out no one's doing
that that's not what's going on the
price engine falls out of bed
precipitously when it's bearish and it's
done its job of putting Traders on the
wrong side by a Judah swing trading
higher creating the morning session High
which could very more be the high of the
day it drops aggressively
fast and if you're on the right side of
the marketplace it's fun but if you're
on the wrong side it's dangerous it's
it's it's devastating it's it's it's
morally deflating it's it's it's
crushing because it's like wow what just
happened and you're proving that you
don't know how the markets work if
you're asking what just happened or how
did that happen you need to stop trading
with real money and learn how to trade
take some time to spend with the
lectures I'm teaching you because
because I'm literally giving you the
language of the marketplace teaching you
how to read the lifeblood which is
liquidity and the mechanism of delivery
which is
time all these things have to agree if
you have that and you have an economic
calendar has a medium impact or high
impact news driver you have the recipe
for low resistance liquidity run
conditions that means solid days trading
easy trades easy easy fast money that's
the stuff that you're supposed to be
looking for but there isn't an everyday
supply of that so you just
don't do anything with price no in the
beginning you got you have to learn a
lot so engage study it you learn more
about hard days like this than you do
with the easy days the easy days the
only thing that teaches you is to trade
with more
leverage tra I wish I would have traded
with a bigger position that's that's
that's the only thing it's going to
teach you until you've learned these
lessons here like I talked about
today it keeps you holding a
sober-minded perspective over trading it
it puts a filter a leash if you will
it puts the animal inside you in a cage
so that way you don't go out there
recklessly do things in conditions like
this which obviously has opportunities
to trade in but try to understand from
my perspective as a responsible
educator I am aware that not everyone's
going to have the aptitude that all of
you have at the end that are profitable
some of you going to start out with
well-meaning intentions that you are
going to stick with this no matter what
come H high water you're going to figure
it out until you get to that day where
you just can't do it anymore and it's
going to be for some of you that's
that's the reality you're not going to
be a Trader and I don't mean that to be
deflating I don't mean that to be
discouraging but let's just be practical
you know people that you've seen on
social media they've been talking the
same nonsense and they don't have any
profitability they're just negative
they're never going to be a Trader they
don't have the wherewithal they don't
have the dis discipline they don't have
the desire to change who they
are but if you have that passion to stay
I'm going to be in here I'm going to
stick with it I'm going to you know
follow the rules and I know it's going
to be hard but I see the science behind
it I just have to get accustomed to
looking for these characteristics and
study them get a backlog of how it
worked in the past real time studying it
forward and then you'll see your model
and then when you operate in them and
you use these low hanging fruit
objectives where all you're doing is
looking for a cookie cutter $200 a day
$100 day $150 a day $250 a
day I don't think someone that new you
know you're probably asking why' you say
$250 because I don't think anyone that's
new should have anything more than 250
bucks in fact if I was being honest with
you I would say anywhere between 100
and 200 but 250 anything more than that
as a beginning Trader that's trying to
formulate a track record of consistently
profitable consistently finding
something that's easy to get out of the
marketplace and not requiring a great
deal Precision not a lot of whole lot of
ICT acrobatics not a lot of moving Parts
very simple surgical strikes go in bing
boom boom done get your money and leave
don't feel impulsive about going back in
because it moves even more even if I put
something out there on the internet if I
say something if you are affected and
influenced by anything I or anyone else
says you are not the student that I'm
aiming you to
be I'm trying to put you in the the
right direction and allowing the the
natural trajectory of you following the
procedures and processes that I'm
providing for you for free it's your job
to stick to them so that way you can see
the benefit of doing those
things but if you are influenced by
anything that I say in a live
stream you have not graduated to a
degree
where if you know your model it doesn't
matter what I
say if you know your model it doesn't
matter what anybody else is saying
it doesn't matter what they criticize
about you they don't it doesn't matter
none of these things matter as far as
I'm concerned none of your opinion about
anything I talk about is important to
me it has no bearing on the outcome of
whatever I do none you can't influence
me I I follow nobody on social media no
one has any influence over
me so I want you to understand that I
hold my position of an influencer and
mentor and
teacher with a great deal of respect
because I know that if I say certain
things it will cause the weaker or newer
students to do certain things to either
try to emulate me or think that I have
to have that happen in them as a student
before they're proving themselves worthy
or part of the community or
whatever on Twitter or X that's my
playground I say a lot of stuff I stir
up a lot of trouble because I that's and
I enjoy it that's just it's my it's my
outlet I vent there I love pulling the
uh the strings of other people and I
love reading their because they
think they have an you know an impact on
me they don't it's just a a running joke
but in the lectures I hold my position
as an educator as a
mentor to a degree that nobody else does
because I want you to understand that I
am aware of the risks in these markets
I'm aware that the risks that you're
going to take that you don't think
you're going to do in the beginning but
you will
and I'm trying to be a voice of reason
for my kids so that way they don't do
those things and you have the benefit of
hearing that and I justify why I say
these things with rules and processes
and procedures that will yield
you the protection if you allow that and
if you stick to it you won't overtrade
you won't over leverage you won't demand
more from the market then it's most
likely going to do for that given
session or day and you won't be
surprised by any of this stuff either
how many times has has the market done
something you're like wow where did that
come from or if you feel so
inclined man this is really trash market
conditions and you want to go online and
that means you had no expectation
it was going to be like that that means
you should never be trading with real
money if you're surprised okay I'm GNA
say this I'm closing it if you're
surprised by Price action and you're
completely taken off guard unless it's
something like geopolitical wartime
you type of stuff where you somebody
just got attacked um you something just
exploded some kind of terrorist attack
something to that effect where there's a
manual intervention where it's obvious
that that okay now we understand there's
that's the reason why the market did
that it was a re knee-jerk reaction to
some kind of event that took
place barring that if you're surprised
by Price action
intraday you are getting the clearest
indication that you should not be
trading with real
money if you feel the impulses of
looking at Price action or if you're in
a trade and you start saying things like
this I know if I get out of this trade
it's going to do stop right now and go
back to demo because you literally are
indicating that you have no idea what
you're doing you have no model you're
guessing that's exactly what that is
you're
guessing as soon as you start
articulating in internally or
audibly conditions that if I do this I
know
okay soon as you soon as you start
saying that or start thinking that
here's what you need to know about what
you just did you just proven that you
lost the plot or never had it and you
better be removing yourself from
monetary risk
immediately anyone that stays in that
condition or continues to stay in that
condition after that trading episode and
you keep repeating that you do not have
a consistent model you're not
consistently applying said model and
you're guessing and
eventually eventually you're going to
have to pay the devil his
deal he's just letting you trip tra
right through hell and you're only
getting a sunburn once in a while but
eventually he's going to grab you he's
going to chain you down and you're going
to go through some stuff you keep
tempting it it's going to happen but
when you go out there in
ignorance staying in the marketplace
with real monetary risk and you're
thinking or feeling or ably saying it
out loud I know if I get out of this
Marketplace I know it's going to go and
tear off and there it is or I know if I
put a short one right here I know it's
going to run you run higher as soon as I
get in there what are you
doing what are you doing there are
people literally being paid by people
that talk like this on the
regular that is the sure sign that they
don't know what the they're
doing no professional no professional
minded Trader ever says audibly
you know I know if I do this XYZ is
going to happen and I'm wrong and I'm
gonna I'm G to stick with this because I
feel impulsive about it because that's
exactly what you're saying you're you're
being impulsive versus well versed
planned model being
implemented it's
binary it's this or it's that and you
execute on this or that you don't worry
about the gray areas in between well I
feel like this is going to do if I do
what you feel means
nothing the algorithm is not tapped into
your emotions but you're tapping into
the market through and via your emotions
as soon as you start doing that you have
completely
unplugged from what the Market's telling
you and you're not reading the price
anymore you're reading your emotions
you're you're putting yourself through a
lie detector
test that's what you're doing do you
feel like this is going to be a trade
that you can hold on to true or false
let's see what your outcome's going to
be and you literally fail the polygraph
right there by saying I know if it does
this you don't know
you don't know anything as soon as
you talk like that you know nothing get
out of the market do go back to demo
until you start trading without that
when you go to those types of things you
start saying I know if I do this it's
going to hurt me otherwise or I'm going
to regret this you're worried about the
outcome you're not worried about the
process and the model anymore you're
worried about the outcome which is not
guaranteed to any of us
us so you've lost the plot or never had
it from the
beginning and anyone that you see talks
like that they're indicating to you okay
in performance art and in Magic there's
this event that it's called the point of
indication the point of indication is
much like when you're gambling at a card
table it's a tell it's their way of
telling on themselves it's them saying
and indicating to you that this is my
moment of
weakness this is my moment of ignorance
and I'm trying to do something to mask
it from myself hoping that nobody else
picks up on it that's why it's called a
tell gamblers are never really playing
the cards they're playing the people
holding the cards that's what they're
doing and people that come off real
cocky arrogant and I got a win hand oh
you might as well just fold I got you or
all in all in all in they're just
playing the bluff too many times
and gamblers that know what they're
doing that can read people they'll watch
and see how often do they want to go in
high Rays Go in all in all that type of
stuff because they're reading the person
the character they don't know for
certain how what cards they have they
don't need to know that they just need
to know what's the pattern of them they
haven't had a winning hand for a while
so that means they're going to press
hard they're gonna try to Bluff they may
maybe they have something maybe they
don't but if all of a sudden you know
they've been changing themselves and
they're indicating their tell if they
start adjusting their sunglasses and
they put their hands on or they put
their hands across their
lips or they adjust their hat or they do
something like that that's a tell that's
a point of indication in magic for
magicians they always close their eyes
when they when they do the slight of
hand when they're doing the trick part
that you're not supposed to see an
amateur magician they close their eyes
because what they're doing is is they're
hiding that moment when they know
they're not really equipped to be doing
it in front of an audience yet so they
close their eyes thinking well if I
don't see it the audience doesn't see it
but that doesn't translate sometimes the
audience will see it and they'll Flash
and you'll see them doing the slight of
hand and it doesn't look like matching
anymore it looks like magical
malpractice and the same thing happens
in trading you have trading malpractice
done to
yourself you're you're indicating you're
not equipped to be trading with real
money when you start talking in a
language like I know if I do this and if
I get out it's going to run and blast
off okay if you know that then
stay in the trade stop talking about it
just do that but what you're doing is is
you're making an allowance for an
outcome that you've now placed Above and
Beyond in terms of importance to the
outcome of what you started the trade on
if you're in a trade you stay with the
trade until it proves to you
otherwise nothing else is important you
don't talk about your emotions you don't
say anything about your emotions I think
I feel I know it's going to do this if
it does this you're you're you're
predicting an outcome that you don't
know for certain it's going to happen
and your attention is placed on that and
that type of stuff's going to happen in
these conditions
folks you don't have time to think like
that when it's in low resistance liquid
your R conditions because the Market's
in a hurry to get to your profit if
you're on side using the stuff I'm
teaching if you're on side on those
instances at that time
the Market's not going to spend a lot of
time Dilly dallying around it's this off
the races and go
baby that's how you want to trade you
don't want to be in conditions that have
you wrestling with should I stay with
this I don't know should I hold on to
this should I take something off
that I'm not interested in being in
those markets like that it doesn't make
me a a lesser Trader than somebody else
doesn't make me a better Trader because
uh you know I I'm more
selective it makes me better as a person
inside my own seven pound universe that
brain that's in between my ears I have
to live within myself while I'm in a
trade and I know what it's like to be in
a trade and tearing my own flesh from my
myself from the inside out clawing my
way wishing the trade would just
end because it's it's too nerve-wracking
being in conditions even when you're
making money and you're brand new you
want to just Escape that feeling of
uncomfortable man is this ever going to
let let me get out of this with a profit
it's so close I'm like seven handles
away 10 handles away I let me just get
out of this please get up here and hit
my Target in the beginning the best
thing you can do is get out of
it when you're in that profit and you
start feeling that wrestling match get
out of it and then log the rest of the
trade if it goes there you get a moral
Victory that's new growth well there's
confidence Builder right there if I
would have stayed with it there it is
but you got to get to that threshold of
failure where you can't stand it anymore
in the beginning and then when you can't
stand it anymore close the trade and
watch what happens after that that's the
best you can do there's nothing else you
can do that's more positive
reinforcement because if you stay with
it if if it doesn't go there you're
going to carry that resentment for years
and that one little transaction in the
beginning everything is in seed format
in the beginning everything that you're
planting in your future self and future
Harvest of making money it's all in seed
format that's what you're you're you're
planting all those things in the
beginning doesn't it make sense to plant
good seeds in the beginning so that way
your Harvest is Bountiful and life long
going forward you have a lot of
experience you can reap from harvesting
good positive reinforcement ideas that
you've did these things in the past
therefore you can trust the logic behind
it versus always giving yourself the
opportunity to be in these toxic
environments never spending any time
with weeding your garden keeping all the
weeds out of your garden that means your
mind's not you spent worrying about
toxic all the time whether it be
toxic personalities on the internet
toxic Educators toxic people that talk
to you on social media that tell you
what you're learning isn't going to work
or you're going to fail or putting
yourself through toxic environments
forcing yourself to trade in
environments like this as a new Trader
these are
complex it's not complex for me but it's
complex for a student that's brand new
or not well versed with price action
they're not going to be able to
appreciate the difficulties that are now
elevated because of the nature of what
the Market's going to
do how it's going to print how it's
going to book price in contrast to when
the market has high impact or medium
impact news drivers and it's not a
Monday and we have very clear obvious
draws on liquidity new week opening gaps
new day opening gaps that are clustered
and we have an opening range gap of more
than 45 handles minimum but I'd like 75
there you go that's recipe for just
beautiful low resistance liquidity run
conditions it's not 100% guaranteed that
you're going to get low resistance uh
liquidity run conditions it just means
that the probabilities are off the
charts that that's probably what's going
to happen and that means I'm going to be
all over that day or that session all
over it like white on rice I'm gonna be
on that
and it's important to
know that even while you're learning in
in resistance quad conditions that your
ultimate Target which you're trying to
draw to you know your new week opening
Gap High when you're short or new week
opening Gap low when you're
long it doesn't need to trade to that in
the beginning for you it doesn't need to
do that at
all if someone
said I'm going to give you
$100,000 to trade
with the rules are you can never take
more than 15 handles out of the NASDAQ
but you can't take more than one trade
either per
day the first time you do that you lose
all access to the
$100,000 how many of you would have the
discipline to stick to that I would I
would wager 95% of you couldn't do it
you might say you can but you
won't what happens if you were presented
an opportunity to trade and have a goal
of getting 10 handles a day in the
NASDAQ and when you get it you
stop and you don't care what anybody
else says you don't care how much it's
GNA
move soon as it gets you 10 handles
you're out you're
done could you do
that because Matt Miller did that and he
took $300,000 out of the
marketplace did it in front of
everybody transparent showed everything
that is commendable I have respect for
that everybody everybody else should
have respect for that
and he was doing the
least he was doing the
least and made over 300,000 spendable
dollars in his bank account it's his
money now truth told I was kind of
hoping he would cash out
and then start over because that way he
would had all that money and if you have
a model that works just start all over
and build it up
again but the mind doesn't usually work
like that it's like well I built it up I
want to just keep working off of this
when I bet in a different opportunity if
it gets to that point again he might
entertain the idea of doing it
differently because if you can build it
up one time and you have a model you
stick to and you built
that I guess
progress that you can measure and say I
did all those things before okay even if
you lost the account or cashed out
either way you g to stop trading you're
not going to do that you might take some
time off worst case scenario but you're
gonna go back and try to do the same
thing you just did the first time right
you're G to build it up okay well if you
have this big massive account with these
prop firms why the are you letting
them hold that money
why I read all these stories and these
people talking about how they're being
denied and delayed and delayed and
delayed dude seriously there's more
people learning how to trade better than
there has ever
been my students are cleaning
up and there's more of you coming all
the time and they're changing rules and
they're changing rules and changing
rules my advice to you okay is if you
have big
balances take them
home take them home spendable money in
your bank
account I mean that sincerely because
what's coming you're going to want to
have that
money and there's nothing guaranteeing
that these companies stay
solvent they're not going to go out
there and broadcast you yeah we're in
financial Straits you know
we're we're we're about ready to close
the doors but when you start seeing them
say well you know we're delaying this
delaying this it's the M's getting paid
out you have to wait you have to wait
and now they're asking you to record
yourself I don't know me it just seems
like there's a whole lot of whole lot of
things that are being
added
and the reason why I say this is because
if you were able to build it up
there then you'll be able to do it again
start from square one with the cash in
your hands see that money ain't real
cash to you in their eyes it's just
numbers it's
digits at any time they can come with
any excuse to say well yeah we're going
to deny it you didn't pass this thing
you didn't you did something squirly
over here and you don't have it so while
you're in good standing get
it then start back all over again what's
the difference if the money is in your
bank account versus them saying that you
have this much money in profits you
could take out the difference is is you
can buy groceries that's the
difference the difference is you can pay
your car note your bank notes that you
owe loans on your house note your ends
can be met showing people what you have
in unrealized profit in an account to me
I'm a money man that's that's a
number that's no different than you
taking a napkin and writing down this is
how much money I want to have in my bank
account because that's the equivalent
you want that money in your bank account
but you didn't ask for it yet
why get that those
leaderboards man those leaderboards
those lead board that's the Trap that's
the gimmick because they keep dangling
the carrot oh if you keep building the
account if you keep dangling that carrot
they're going to keep doing what trying
to reach for something instead of taking
the money that's owed to them
take your money that's your you
money that's you I beat you money that's
your money that they can you can spend
on whatever you want to spend it on
you want to waste it in pour and used
cars go ahead bottom line is is you've
made that money you've earned it take it
home don't get caught up and all the
leaderboards and all that other
that's the
Trap that's the
Trap if you have big balances owed to
you and you can liquidate it liquidate
that take it home and put
it in your bank account and then start
all over again you're saying you don't
know how to trade if you can't do
that because that's exactly what you you
would be telling me that you don't know
how to do the same thing that put you in
that same
position oh if I take the money out out
then I got to build it all up the
you do what are you talking about you
got to build it up it's in your own bank
account it's in your hands it ain't your
money until it's in your
hands the mentality of these individuals
that have these big balances sitting on
these prop firms and they parade around
on the internet saying look at this this
is what I got this is what I got sitting
in my account right now are you
nuts I'm a money person okay if that
money is your money bring it
home bring it the home because it's
not your
money if it's in their hands it's their
money and remember if it's your money
why you have to ask for
it when it's in your bank account you
don't have to ask
anybody you spend
it but it just shows the level of
financial illiteracy even in prop
trading these individuals they get
caught up in the social media badge of
honor look what I've got look what I've
built my account up to that I'm not
impressed by that what did you put in
your
bank because that's what this is all
about you did not start trading to be on
a leaderboard you did not start trading
to have other people glad hand and shake
your hand say wow you really ran that
account up a
lot okay that's wonderful that you ran
it up but how about running that in
a bank wire to your bank account okay
and then we can glad hand and say damn
son that was how you do it that's how
you do it it's about taking it
home it's not about how many times you
pass a combine who gives a about
that it's funny as a as a kid growing up
one of the things that pissed me off
about Ric Flair I love to hate
him one of the things that pissed me off
is dude like here he is 10 times world
champion I mean I know shit's all
scripted and rigged okay but as a little
boy I believe that I was mad all
the time every Saturday morning I was
pissed off with this
because he was cheating
and my argument was always yeah you're
10 times that means you lost it
nine times you lost that nine
times so I'm I'm never impressed when
people say I I passed another combine I
passed another
combine no how much money have you
brought
home how much have you brought home
because that's what this game's all
about it's not about how many things you
can pass how about passing me my
money Jack okay pass me
the money I got on hold in your prop
firm and bring it to back to me okay
because then it's spendable money and
then you've made money you didn't make
any money with those digits on a
leaderboard or a prop firm account
saying that you have this much money
that's not money they're just
numbers It's Only Money when it's in
your hands and you can spend it on
whatever the you want to spend it
on and anybody that tells you otherwise
it's
stupid because all that is is a trick to
never have to ask for all that money
from the prop
firms they don't want to be paying out
those big payouts they don't want that
that's against the whole process
they make money from you
losing the only way they profit is by
you re-upping and restarting that's the
game that's the Ponzi so if you a lot of
money you've built it up you earned it
get it take it home and then start it
all over again because if you know what
you're doing it's nothing to do that in
fact it's better because you're freed up
emotionally and psychologically you've
been paid
out I'm sure I'm certain Matt if you're
listening you know what I mean by this
it's nothing
derogatory but I you know that Matt
Miller you traded by Matt when he had
that $300,000 payout he had a lot more
money in there he could took out
but he wanted to keep it in there I bet
you if we were at a bar or a restaurant
one onone talking I bet you he would say
you know what if I could go back in time
I wish I would have liquidated it and
started all over
again I bet you he would say
that and anybody in their right mind
would say the same thing so my question
is is when these individuals no matter
what it
is if you're running up $10,000 or more
like pay
yourself there's nothing guaranteeing
that your your your streak is going to
continue because these conditions right
now and I promise this is the last thing
I'm saying because I have to get out of
here I get something I'm
hungry the conditions that we're trading
in right now and what we're about to
walk into in the next two weeks going
into
2025 is the hardest Market environments
I've ever traded in
and I've been around for 32 years I've
seen a lot of different markets I've
seen good markets fast markets slow
markets tight markets where they didn't
want to move
anything but these are the most
difficult market conditions I have ever
seen and I want you to understand
that because if I'm telling you that I'm
telling you that for a reason if you
have a way to get money that's owed to
you and you've earned it in these prop
firms take it
you're going to need
it rough times are coming and you've
earned it then you did not earn it while
it's sitting in a digit
format think about how many times you've
heard someone seen someone or have
experienced it yourself where you had
unrealized profit that you could have
taken out but you wanted to build the
account up I'm telling you someone as a
money
person there's no difference between you
taking that money out of their hands
when it's owed to you and putting in
your bank account and starting all over
again those combines are nothing to pass
they're nothing to pass but staying in
them when they're funded that's the
challenge so if you work that hard to
get it to where it is where you have
that much money to take out of it take
out of it take take it
out just get get paid that's the main
thing you have to be able to exchange
that money from their hands which is a
numerical format only and turn it into
real money which is what don't want to
do they don't want to turn those digits
into real money that has to be paid to
you because when that happens their
profit
drops what business model ever has that
mind or that mindset that you know our
success is on the basis
of you losing continuously and paying
for those
losing but our failure is you
succeeding but that's exactly what that
model is
that's exactly what it is and guess what
there's always going to be a market for
that until the the you Regulators step
in and say we're going to do things
differently now but while it's
affordable to you and you have money
that's there that should be given to you
if you ask for it ask for
it get it secure it in your bank account
and then start
over and just repeat that but leaving it
in a position where it ain't your money
is
stupidity because given enough time
given enough
opportunity that digit format will be no
longer obtainable for you to take it and
turn it into real
money so hopefully you learned something
from today I covered a lot of stuff and
I think that u i communicated in the
best way I can how someone could
uh reasonably expect to navigate or feel
comfortable with saying I'm not going to
trade in a condition like this
today until
it is shown by repeatedly logging in
journaling it you you won't you won't
appreciate lectures like this it just
sounds like well you know you talk
because you want to hear the sounding
voice and that's not what it is go back
to the tweet this morning these levels I
had in there I told you the clustering
where the Market's going to draw to your
chart your chart shows this just like it
does online we're right in here in the
lower quadrant of that new week opening
gap of last week but Caleb and you don't
require that that's the major important
thing here over time when you have
better experience more experience you'll
be able to hold for these objectives and
you won't Trail your stop loss or if you
do get stopped out you'll go in again
but you won't Rush your stop loss to to
strangle the market and let it go down
there is a way to trade high resistance
to C run conditions there is but you're
not going to be well vers in the
beginning when you're first learning how
to trade to do well in these conditions
because a lot of retracements a lot of
consolidations and a lot more
overlapping and that's not what you want
to see in a trade you don't want to see
unrealized profits erode and go down
below your entry pattern or or price and
then see it work real hard to get back
into profit again most Traders don't
have the wherewithal to do that so I try
to teach in a way where it steers my
students and my children who I'm
teaching really I'm trying to steer them
away from these environments because
they're going to be
more difficult they're harder to
navigate when you don't have a lot of
experience and imagine just for a moment
it it you had a lot of experience and
you knew a lot more than your own
children but they want to learn what you
do wouldn't you do everything in your
power to try to show them where even
with your ability and your skill set you
can respect the measure of difficulty
that's increased in other circumstances
around that school of thought or
whatever it is you're trying to to teach
them it doesn't have to be trading could
be anything but you have enough
experience to know that this is going to
be harder for someone that's brand new
versus someone that's been doing it for
10 years they won't see a day like this
as all that complicated they have a
little bit more uh understanding and
discipline to Res you to restrict their
their participation by way of leverage
number and frequency of trade and their
expectation in terms of their profit but
as a new Trader as a new student you
don't think that way it's like how much
can I make and how fast can I get it and
I don't ever want to see a stop loss
ever hit that's the normal expectation
of a new Trader they don't think it's
ever going to happen to him they they
going to find a mentor that teaches them
how they're never going to take a losing
trade and that's so anyway I
had fun talking to you all hope you
learned something today these are those
better lessons that are better than me
picking the right Fairway G for you in
order box because that stuff you even
with that information you'll lose you'll
lose money on days like this even
knowing that stuff okay so I'll talk to
you guys Lord willing tomorrow again uh
it'll probably be a morning session
normal couple minutes after 9 o'